WMB 50821 UY
WMB 51021 UY

Washing Machine
User’s Manual
Plně automatická pračka

Uživatel Manuální
Πλυντήριο Ρούχων
Εγχειρίδιο Χρήστη
Mosógép
Használati útmutató

Document Number
2820523275_EN/ 16-01-13.(19:27)

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

1	 Important instructions for safety and
environment

This section contains safety instructions that will help protect
from risk of personal injury or property damage. Failure to
follow these instructions shall void any warranty.

1.1 General safety

•	 This product can be used by children at and above 8
years old and by persons whose physical, sensory or
mental capabilities were not fully developed or who
lack experience and knowledge provided that they are
supervised or trained on the safe usage of the product
and the risks it brings out. Children must not play with
the product. Cleaning and maintenance works should not
be performed by children unless they are supervised by
someone.
•	 Never place the product on a carpet-covered floor.
Otherwise, lack of airflow beneath the machine will cause
electrical parts to overheat. This will cause problems with
your product.
•	 If the product has a failure, it should not be operated
unless it is repaired by the Authorized Service Agent.
There is the risk of electric shock!
•	 This product is designed to resume operating in the event
of powering on after a power interruption. If you wish to
cancel the programme, see "Cancelling the programme"
section.
•	 Connect the product to a grounded outlet protected
by a 16 A fuse. Do not neglect to have the grounding
installation made by a qualified electrician. Our company
shall not be liable for any damages that will arise when
the product is used without grounding in accordance with
the local regulations.
•	 The water supply and draining hoses must be securely
fastened and remain undamaged. Otherwise, there is the
risk of water leakage.
•	 Never open the loading door or remove the filter while
there is still water in the drum. Otherwise, risk of flooding
and injury from hot water will occur.
•	 Do not force open the locked loading door. The loading
door will be ready to open just a few minutes after the
washing cycle comes to an end. In case of forcing the
loading door to open, the door and the lock mechanism
may get damaged.
•	 Unplug the product when not in use.
•	 Never wash the product by spreading or pouring water
onto it! There is the risk of electric shock!
•	 Never touch the plug with wet hands! Never unplug by
pulling on the cable, always pull out by grabbing the plug.
•	 Use detergents, softeners and supplements suitable for
automatic washing machines only.
•	 Follow the instructions on the textile tags and on the
detergent package.
•	 The product must be unplugged during installation,
maintenance, cleaning and repairing procedures.
•	 Always have the installation and repairing procedures
carried out by the Authorized Service Agent.
Manufacturer shall not be held liable for damages that
may arise from procedures carried out by unauthorized
persons.
•	 If the power cable is damaged, it must be replaced by the
manufacturer, after sales service or a similarly qualified
2 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

person (preferably an electrician) or someone designated
by the importer in order to avoid possible risks.

1.2 Intended use

•	 This product has been designed for domestic use. It is not
suitable for commercial use and it must not be used out
of its intended use.
•	 The product must only be used for washing and rinsing of
laundry that are marked accordingly.
•	 The manufacturer waives any responsibility arisen from
incorrect usage or transportation.

1.3 Children's safety

•	 Packaging materials are dangerous to children. Keep
packaging materials in a safe place away from reach of
the children.
•	 Electrical products are dangerous for the children. Keep
children away from the product when it is in use. Do not
let them to tamper with the product. Use child lock to
prevent children from intervening with the product.
•	 Do not forget to close the loading door when leaving the
room where the product is located.
•	 Store all detergents and additives in a safe place away
from the reach of the children by closing the cover of the
detergent container or sealing the detergent package.

1.4 Package information

•	 Packaging materials of the product are manufactured
from recyclable materials in accordance with our
National Environment Regulations. Do not dispose of the
packaging materials together with the domestic or other
wastes. Take them to the packaging material collection
points designated by the local authorities.

1.5 Disposing of the waste product

•	 This product has been manufactured with high quality
parts and materials which can be reused and are suitable
for recycling. Therefore, do not dispose the product with
normal domestic waste at the end of its service life. Take
it to a collection point for the recycling of electrical and
electronic equipment. Please consult your local authorities
to learn the nearest collection point. Help protect the
environment and natural resources by recycling used
products. For children's safety, cut the power cable and
break the locking mechanism of the loading door so that
it will be non-functional before disposing of the product.

1.6 Compliance with WEEE Directive

This appliance’s packaging material is
recyclable. Help recycle it and protect the
environment by dropping it off in the municipal
receptacles provided for this purpose. Your
appliance also contains a great amount of
recyclable material. It is marked with this label
to indicate the used appliances that should not
be mixed with other waste. This way, the appliance recycling
organised by your manufacturer will be done under the best
possible conditions, in compliance with European Directive
2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment.
Contact your town hall or your retailer for the used appliance
collection points closest to your home.  We thank you doing
your part to protect the environment.

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

2	Installation

Refer to the nearest Authorised Service Agent for installation
of the product. To make the product ready for use, review
the information in the user manual and make sure that the
electricity, tap water supply and water drainage systems are
appropriate before calling the Authorized Service Agent. If
they are not, call a qualified technician and plumber to have
any necessary arrangements carried out.

C

Preparation of the location and electrical, tap water and
waste water installations at the place of installation is
under customer's responsibility.

A

Installation and electrical connections of
the product must be carried out by the Authorized
Service Agent. Manufacturer shall not be held liable for
damages that may arise from procedures carried out by
unauthorized persons.
warning: Prior to installation, visually check if the product
has any defects on it. If so, do not have it installed.
Damaged products cause risks for your safety.
Make sure that the water inlet and discharge hoses
as well as the power cable are not folded, pinched or
crushed while pushing the product into its place after
installation or cleaning procedures.

B

C

warning:

2.1 Appropriate installation location

•	 Place the machine on a rigid floor. Do not place it on a
long pile rug or similar surfaces.
•	 Total weight of the washing machine and the dryer -with
full load- when they are placed on top of each other
reaches to approx. 180 kilograms. Place the product
on a solid and flat floor that has sufficient load carrying
capacity!
•	 Do not place the product on the power cable.
•	 Do not install the product at places where temperature
may fall below 0ºC.
•	 Place the product at least 1 cm away from the edges of
other furniture.

2.2 Removing packaging reinforcement

2.	Remove transportation safety bolts by turning them
gently.
3.	Attach the plastic covers supplied in the User Manual bag
into the holes on the rear panel. (P)

C
C
2.4 Connecting water supply
C

Keep the transportation safety bolts in a safe place to
reuse when the washing machine needs to be moved
again in the future.
Never move the product without the transportation safety
bolts properly fixed in place!

C
A
A

The water supply pressure required to run the product is
between 1 to 10 bars (0.1 – 1 MPa). It is necessary to
have 10 – 80 liters of water flowing from the fully open
tap in one minute to have your machine run smoothly.
Attach a pressure reducing valve if water pressure is
higher.
If you are going to use the double water-inlet product
as a single (cold) water-inlet unit, you must install the
supplied stopper to the hot water valve before operating
the product. (Applies for the products supplied with a
blind stopper group.)
warning:

Models with a single water inlet should not be
connected to the hot water tap. In such a case the laundry
will get damaged or the product will switch to protection
mode and will not operate.
warning:

Do not use old or used water inlet hoses on the
new product. It may cause stains on your laundry.

1.	Connect the special hoses supplied with the product to
the water inlets on the product. Red hose (left) (max. 90
ºC) is for hot water inlet, blue hose (right) (max. 25 ºC) is
for cold water inlet.

Tilt the machine backwards to remove the packaging
reinforcement. Remove the packaging reinforcement by
pulling the ribbon.

A
2.3 Removing the transportation locks

A
A

warning:

Ensure that the cold and hot water connections
are made correctly when installing the product.
Otherwise, your laundry will come out hot at the end of
the washing process and wear out.

2.	Tighten all hose nuts by hand. Never use a tool when
tightening the nuts.

warning:

Do not remove the transportation locks before
taking out the packaging reinforcement.
warning:

Remove the transportation safety bolts before
operating the washing machine! Otherwise, the product
will be damaged.

1.	Loosen all the bolts with a suitable spanner until they
rotate freely (C).
3 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

3.	Open the taps completely after making the hose
connection to check for water leaks at the connection
Washing Machine / User’s Manual

points. If any leaks occur, turn off the tap and remove the
nut. Retighten the nut carefully after checking the seal. To
prevent water leakages and damages caused by them,
keep the taps closed when the machine is not in use.

1.	Loosen the lock nuts on the feet by hand.
2.	Adjust the feet until the product stands level and
balanced.
3.	Tighten all lock nuts again by hand.

2.5 Connecting to the drain

•	 The end of the drain hose must be directly connected to
the wastewater drain or to the washbasin.

A

warning:

Your house will be flooded if the hose comes
out of its housing during water discharge. Moreover, there
is risk of scalding due to high washing temperatures!
To prevent such situations and to ensure smooth water
intake and discharge of the machine, fix the end of the
discharge hose tightly so that it cannot come out.

•	 The hose should be attached to a height of at least 40
cm, and 100 cm at most.
•	 In case the hose is elevated after laying it on the floor
level or close to the ground (less than 40 cm above the
ground), water discharge becomes more difficult and the
laundry may come out excessively wet. Therefore, follow
the heights described in the figure.

•	 To prevent flowing of dirty water back into the machine
and to allow for easy discharge, do not immerse the hose
end into the dirty water or do not drive it in the drain more
than 15 cm. If it is too long, cut it short.
•	 The end of the hose should not be bent, it should not be
stepped on and the hose must not be pinched between
the drain and the machine.
•	 If the length of the hose is too short, use it by adding
an original extension hose. Length of the hose may
not be longer than 3.2 m. To avoid water leak failures,
the connection between the extension hose and the
drain hose of the product must be fitted well with an
appropriate clamp as not to come off and leak.

2.6 Adjusting the feet

A

warning:

In order to ensure that the product operates
more silently and vibration-free, it must stand level and
balanced on its feet. Balance the machine by adjusting
the feet. Otherwise, the product may move from its place
and cause crushing and vibration problems.

4 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

A

warning:

Do not use any tools to loosen the lock nuts.
Otherwise, they will get damaged.

2.7 Electrical connection

Connect the product to a grounded outlet protected by a 16
A fuse. Our company shall not be liable for any damages
that will arise when the product is used without grounding in
accordance with the local regulations.
•	 Connection must comply with national regulations.
•	 Power cable plug must be within easy reach after
installation.
•	 If the current value of the fuse or breaker in the house is
less than 16 Amps, have a qualified electrician install a
16 Amp fuse.
•	 The voltage specified in the "Technical specifications"
section must be equal to your mains voltage.
•	 Do not make connections via extension cables or multiplugs.

B

warning:

Damaged power cables must be replaced by
the Authorized Service Agents.

Transportation of the product
1.	Unplug the product before transporting it.
2.	Remove water drain and water supply connections.
3.	Drain all water that has remained in the product.
4.	Install transportation safety bolts in the reverse order of
removal procedure;

C

A

Never move the product without the transportation safety
bolts properly fixed in place!
warning:

Packaging materials are dangerous to children.
Keep packaging materials in a safe place away from
reach of the children.

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

3	Preparation
3.1 Sorting the laundry

•	 Sort laundry according to type of fabric, colour, and
degree of soiling and allowable water temperature.
•	 Always obey the instructions given on the garment tags.

3.2 Preparing laundry for washing

•	 Laundry items with metal attachments such as,
underwired bras, belt buckles or metal buttons will
damage the machine. Remove the metal pieces or wash
the clothes by putting them in a laundry bag or pillow
case.
• 	Take out all substances in the pockets such as coins,
pens and paper clips, and turn pockets inside out and
brush. Such objects may damage the product or cause
noise problem.
•	 Put small size clothes such as infant's socks and nylon
stockings in a laundry bag or pillow case.
•	 Place curtains in without compressing them. Remove
curtain attachment items.
•	 Fasten zippers, sew loose buttons and mend rips and
tears.
•	 Wash “machine washable” or “hand washable” labeled
products only with an appropriate programme.
•	 Do not wash colours and whites together. New, dark
coloured cottons release a lot of dye. Wash them
separately.
•	 Tough stains must be treated properly before washing. If
unsure, check with a dry cleaner.
•	 Use only dyes/colour changers and limescale removers
suitable for machine wash. Always follow the instructions
on the package.
•	 Wash trousers and delicate laundry turned inside out.
•	 Keep laundry items made of Angora wool in the freezer
for a few hours before washing. This will reduce pilling.
•	 Laundry that are subjected to materials such as flour,
lime dust, milk powder, etc. intensely must be shaken off
before placing into the machine. Such dusts and powders
on the laundry may build up on the inner parts of the
machine in time and can cause damage.

3.3 Things to be done for energy saving

Following information will help you use the product in an
ecological and energy-efficient manner.
•	 Operate the product in the highest capacity allowed by
the programme you have selected, but do not overload;
see, "Programme and consumption table".
•	 Always follow the instructions on the detergent
packaging.
•	 Wash slightly soiled laundry at low temperatures.
•	 Use faster programmes for small quantities of lightly
soiled laundry.
•	 Do not use prewash and high temperatures for laundry
that is not heavily soiled or stained.
•	 If you plan to dry your laundry in a dryer, select the
highest spin speed recommended during washing
process.
•	 Do not use detergent in excess of the amount
recommended on the detergent package.

5 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

3.4 Initial use

Before starting to use the product, make sure that all
preparations are made in accordance with the instructions in
sections “Important safety instructions” and “Installation”.
To prepare the product for washing laundry, perform first
operation in Drum Cleaning programme. If your product
is not equipped with Drum Cleaning programme, perform
the Initial Use procedure in accordance with the methods
described under “5.2 Cleaning the loading door and the
drum” section of the user manual.

C
C

Use an anti-limescale suitable for the washing machines.
Some water might have remained in the product due to
the quality control processes in the production. It is not
harmful for the product.

3.5 Correct load capacity

The maximum load capacity depends on the type of laundry,
the degree of soiling and the washing programme desired.
The machine automatically adjusts the amount of water
according to the weight of the loaded laundry.

A

warning:

Follow the information in the “Programme
and consumption table”. When overloaded, machine's
washing performance will drop. Moreover, noise and
vibration problems may occur.

Laundry type
Bathrobe
Napkin
Duvet cover
Bed Sheet
Pillowcase
Tablecloth
Towel
Hand towel
Evening gown
Underclothing
Men’s overalls
Men’s shirt
Men’s pajamas
Blouses

Weight (g)
1200
100
700
500
200
250
200
100
200
100
600
200
500
100

3.6 Loading the laundry

1.	Open the loading door.
2.	Place laundry items loosely into the machine.
3.	Push the loading door to close until you hear a locking
sound. Ensure that no items are caught in the door.

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

C

A

The loading door is locked while a programme is running.
The door can only be opened a while after the programme
comes to an end.
warning:

In case of misplacing the laundry, noise and
vibration problems may occur in the machine.

3.7 Using detergent and softener

C

When using detergent, softener, starch, fabric dye, bleach
or limescale remover read the manufacturer's instructions
on the package carefully and follow the suggested dosage
values. Use measuring cup if available.

Detergent Drawer
The detergent drawer is composed of three compartments:
– (1) for prewash
– (2) for main wash
– (3) for softener
– (*) in addition, there is siphon piece in the softener
compartment.

2 3

1

Detergent, softener and other cleaning agents
•	 Add detergent and softener before starting the washing
programme.
•	 Never leave the detergent drawer open while the washing
programme is running!
•	 When using a programme without prewash, do not
put any detergent into the prewash compartment
(compartment nr. "1").
•	 In a programme with prewash, do not put liquid detergent
into the prewash compartment (compartment nr. "1").
•	 Do not select a programme with prewash if you are using
a detergent bag or dispensing ball. Place the detergent
bag or the dispensing ball directly among the laundry in
the machine.
•	 If you are using liquid detergent, do not forget to place
the liquid detergent cup into the main wash compartment
(compartment nr. "2").
Choosing the detergent type
The type of detergent to be used depends on the type and
colour of the fabric.
•	 Use different detergents for coloured and white laundry.
•	 Wash your delicate clothes only with special detergents
(liquid detergent, wool shampoo, etc.) used solely for
delicate clothes.
•	 When washing dark coloured clothes and quilts, it is
recommended to use liquid detergent.
•	 Wash woolens with special detergent made specifically
for woolens.

A
A

warning:

Use only detergents manufactured specifically
for washing machines.
warning:

6 / 76 EN

Do not use soap powder.

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

Adjusting detergent amount
The amount of washing detergent to be used depends
on the amount of laundry, the degree of soiling and water
hardness.
•	 Do not use amounts exceeding the dosage quantities
recommended on the detergent package to avoid
problems of excessive foam, poor rinsing, financial
savings and finally, environmental protection.
•	 Use lesser detergent for small amounts or lightly soiled
clothes.
Using softeners
Pour the softener into the softener compartment of the
detergent drawer.
• 	Do not exceed the (>max<) level marking in the softener
compartment.
• 	If the softener has lost its fluidity, dilute it with water
before putting it in the detergent drawer.
Using liquid detergents
If the product contains a liquid detergent cup:
•	 Make sure that you have placed the liquid detergent cup
in compartment nr. "2".
• 	If the liquid detergent has lost its fluidity, dilute it with
water before putting in the detergent cup.

If the product does not contain a liquid detergent
cup:
•	 Do not use liquid detergent for the prewash in a
programme with prewash.
•	 Liquid detergent stains your clothes when used with
Delayed Start function. If you are going to use the Delayed
Start function, do not use liquid detergent.
Using gel and tablet detergent
Apply the following instructions when using tablet, gel and
similar detergents.
•	 If the gel detergent thickness is fluidal and your machine
does not contain a special liquid detergent cup, put the
gel detergent into the main wash detergent compartment
during first water intake. If your machine contains a liquid
detergent cup, fill the detergent into this cup before
starting the programme.
•	 If the gel detergent thickness is not fluidal or in the shape
of capsule liquid tablet, put it directly into the drum before
washing.
•	 Put tablet detergents into the main wash compartment
(compartment nr. "2") or directly into the drum before
washing.

C
C

Tablet detergents may leave residues in the detergent
compartment. If you encounter such a case, place the
tablet detergent between the laundry, close to the lower
part of the drum in future washings.
Use the tablet or gel detergent without selecting the
prewash function.

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

Using starch
•	 Add liquid starch, powder starch or the fabric dye into the
softener compartment.
•	 Do not use softener and starch together in a washing
cycle.
•	 Wipe the inside of the machine with a damp and clean
cloth after using starch.
Using bleaches
•	 Select a programme with prewash and add the bleaching
agent at the beginning of the prewash. Do not put
detergent in the prewash compartment. As an alternative
application, select a programme with extra rinse and add
the bleaching agent while the machine is taking water
from the detergent compartment during first rinsing step.
•	 Do not use bleaching agent and detergent by mixing
them.

•	 Use just a little amount (approx. 50 ml) of bleaching agent
and rinse the clothes very well as it causes skin irritation.
Do not pour the bleaching agent onto the clothes and do
not use it for coloured clothes.
•	 When using oxygen based bleaches, select a programme
that washes at a lower temperature.
•	 Oxygen based bleaches can be used together with
detergents; however, if its thickness is not the same
with the detergent, put the detergent first into the
compartment nr. "2" in the detergent drawer and wait
until the detergent flows while the machine is taking
in water. Add the bleaching agent from the same
compartment while the machine is still taking in water.
Using limescale remover
• 	When required, use limescale removers manufactured
specifically for washing machines only.

3.8 Tips for efficient washing
Clothes
Light colours and whites

Dark colours

Delicates/
Woolens/Silks

(Recommended temperature
range based on soiling level:
40-90ºC)

(Recommended temperature
range based on soiling level:
cold-40ºC)

(Recommended
temperature range
based on soiling level:
cold-40ºC)

(Recommended
temperature range
based on soiling level:
cold-30ºC)

It may be necessary to pretreat the stains or perform
prewash. Powder and liquid
detergents recommended
for whites can be used at
dosages recommended for
heavily soiled clothes. It is
recommended to use powder
detergents to clean clay and
soil stains and the stains that
are sensitive to bleaches.

Powder and liquid
detergents recommended
for colours can be used at
dosages recommended for
heavily soiled clothes. It is
recommended to use powder
detergents to clean clay and
soil stains and the stains that
are sensitive to bleaches. Use
detergents without bleach.

Liquid detergents
suitable for colours
and dark colours can
be used at dosages
recommended for
heavily soiled clothes.

Prefer liquid
detergents produced
for delicate clothes.
Woolen and silk
clothes must be
washed with special
woolen detergents.

Normally Soiled Powder and liquid detergents

Powder and liquid detergents
recommended for colours
can be used at dosages
recommended for normally
soiled clothes. Use detergents
without bleach.

Liquid detergents
suitable for colours
and dark colours can
be used at dosages
recommended for
normally soiled clothes.

Prefer liquid
detergents produced
for delicate clothes.
Woolen and silk
clothes must be
washed with special
woolen detergents.

Powder and liquid detergents
recommended for colours
can be used at dosages
recommended for lightly
soiled clothes. Use detergents
without bleach.

Liquid detergents
suitable for colours
and dark colours can
be used at dosages
recommended for lightly
soiled clothes.

Prefer liquid
detergents produced
for delicate clothes.
Woolen and silk
clothes must be
washed with special
woolen detergents.

Heavily Soiled
(difficult stains such
as grass, coffee,
fruits and blood.)

Soiling Level

Colours

recommended for whites
(For example, stains can be used at dosages
caused by body on recommended for normally
soiled clothes.
collars and cuffs)

Lightly Soiled
(No visible stains
exist.)

7 / 76 EN

Powder and liquid detergents
recommended for whites
can be used at dosages
recommended for lightly soiled
clothes.

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

4	 Operating the product
4.1 Control panel
1

2

3

1 - Programme Selection knob (Uppermost position On/Off)
2 - Programme Follow-up indicator
3 - Temperature Adjustment button
4 - Spin Speed adjustment button

Dark wash Dark wash Synthetics Cottons Pre-wash
(Darkcare) (Darkcare)

Drain
(Pump)

Anticreasing

Daily
express

Rinse hold

Mixed 40
(Mix40)

Super 40

8 / 76 EN

Duvet
Child(Bedding) proof lock

Start/
Pause

No spin

Extra rinse Freshen
(Rinse Plus) up

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

4

5

6

7

5 - Auxiliary Function buttons
6 - Delayed Start button (in some models)
7 - Start / Pause button

Main
wash

Rinse

Wash

Spin

Cotton Woollens expres 14
Super short
Eco
express

Delicate

Daily

Pet hair Door Ready
removal

Hand
Wash

BabyProtect

Quick
wash

Finished

Cold Temperature Self
Clean

Lingerie

Eco Clean

Jeans

Sport Time delay Intensive

Fasihon
care

Antiallergic

Shirts

mini 30

On/Off

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

4.2 Preparing the machine

Make sure that the hoses are connected tightly. Plug in your
machine. Turn the tap on completely. Place the laundry in the
machine.  Add detergent and fabric softener.

4.3 Programme selection

Select the programme suitable for the type, quantity
and soiling degree of the laundry in accordance with the
“Programme and consumption table” and the temperature
table below.
Heavily soiled white cottons and linens. (coffee table
covers, tableclothes, towels, bed sheets, etc.)
Normally soiled, coloured, fade proof linens, cottons
60˚C
or synthetic clothes (shirt, nightgown, pajamas, etc.)
and lightly soiled white linens (underwear, etc.)
40˚CBlended laundry including delicate textile (veil
30˚C- Cold curtains, etc.), synthetics and woolens.
90˚C

Select the desired programme with the Programme
Selection button.

C
C
C
C
4.4 Main programmes

Programmes are limited with the highest spin speed
appropriate for that particular type of fabric.
When selecting a programme, always consider the type
of fabric, colour, degree of soiling and permissible water
temperature.
Always select the lowest required temperature. Higher
temperature means higher power consumption.
For further programme details, see "Programme and
consumption table"

Depending on the type of fabric, use the following main
programmes.
• Cottons
Use this programme for your cotton laundry (such as bed
sheets, duvet and pillowcase sets, towels, bathrobes,
underwear, etc.). Your laundry will be washed with vigorous
washing action for a longer washing cycle.
• Synthetics
Use this programme to wash your synthetic clothes (shirts,
blouses, synthetic/cotton blends, etc.). It washes with a
gentle action and has a shorter washing cycle compared to
the Cottons programme.
For curtains and tulle, use the Synthetic 40˚C programme
with prewash and anti-creasing functions selected. As their
meshed texture causes excessive foaming, wash the veils/
tulle by putting little amount of detergent into the main
wash compartment. Do not put detergent in the prewash
compartment.
• Woollens
Use this programme to wash your woolen clothes. Select
the appropriate temperature complying with the tags of your
clothes. Use appropriate detergents for woolens.

9 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

4.5 Additional programmes

For special cases, additional programmes are available in
the machine.

C

Additional programmes may differ according to the
model of the machine.

• Cotton Economic
You may wash your normally soiled durable cotton and
linen laundry in this programme with the highest energy
and water saving compared to all other wash programmes
suitable for cottons. Actual water temperature may differ
from the declared cycle temperature. Programme duration
may automatically be shortened during later stages of the
programme if you wash less amount (e.g. ½ capacity or
less) of laundry. In this case energy and water consumption
will be further decreased giving you the opportunity for a
more economical wash. This feature is available for certain
models having remaining time display.
• BabyProtect
Use this programme to wash baby laundry, and the laundry
that belongs to allergic persons. Longer heating time and an
additional rinsing step provide a higher level of hygiene.
• Delicate
Use this programme to wash your delicate clothes. It washes
with a gentle action without any interim spin compared to
the Synthetics programme.
• Hand wash
Use this programme to wash your woolen/delicate clothes
that bear “not machine- washable” tags and for which hand
wash is recommended. It washes laundry with a very gentle
washing action to not to damage clothes.
• Daily express
Use this programme to quickly wash your little amount of
lightly soiled cotton clothes.
• Super short express
Use this programme to wash your little amount of lightly
soiled cotton clothes in a short time.
• Darkcare
Use this programme to wash your dark coloured laundry, or
the coloured laundry that you do not want them get faded.
Washing is performed with less mechanical movements at
low temperature. It is recommended to use liquid detergent
or wool shampoo for dark coloured laundry.
• Mixed 40 (Mix 40)
Use this programme to wash your cotton and synthetic
clothes together without sorting them.
• Shirts
Use this programme to wash the shirts made of cotton,
synthetic and synthetic blended fabrics together.
• Sports
Use this programme to wash your garments that are worn
for a short time such as sportswear. It is suitable to wash
little amount of cotton / synthetic blended garments.

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

4.6 Special programmes

For specific applications, select any of the following
programmes.
• Rinse
Use this programme when you want to rinse or starch
separately.
• Spin + Drain
Use this programme to apply an additional spin cycle for
your laundry or to drain the water in the machine.
Before selecting this programme, select the desired spin
speed and press Start / Pause button. First, the machine will
drain the water inside of it. Then, it will spin the laundry with
the set spin speed and drain the water coming out of them.
If you wish to drain only the water without spinning your
laundry, select the Pump+Spin programme and then select
the No Spin function with the help of Spin Speed Adjustment
button. Press Start / Pause button.

C
4.7 Temperature selection

Use a lower spin speed for delicate laundries.

Whenever a new programme is selected, the maximum
temperature for the selected programme appears on the
temperature indicator.
To decrease the temperature, press the Temperature
Adjustment button. Temperature will decrease gradually.

C

If the programme has not reached the heating step,
you can change the temperature without switching the
machine to Pause mode.

4.8 Spin speed selection

Whenever a new programme is selected, the recommended
spin speed of the selected programme is displayed on the
spin speed indicator.
To decrease the spin speed, press the Spin Speed
Adjustment button. Spin speed decreases gradually. Then,
depending on the model of the product, "Rinse Hold" and
"No Spin" options appear on the display. See "Auxiliary
function selection" section for explanations of these options.

C

If the programme has not reached the spinning step,
you can change the speed without switching the
machine to Pause mode.

10 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

4.9 Programme and consumption table
EN

Auxiliary functions

Max. Load (kg)

Programme Duration (~min)

Water Consumption (l)

Energy Consumption (kWh)

Max. Speed***

Prewash
Quick Wash
Rinse Plus
Anti-Creasing
Rinse Hold
Pet hair removal

2

Cottons

90

5

147

66

2.25

1600

• • • • • •

Cold-90

Cottons

60

5

118

66

1.45

1600

• • • • • •

Cold-90

Cottons

40

5

98

66

0.85

1600

• • • • • •

Cold-90

Cotton Economic

60**

5

190

39

0.76

1600

•

40-60

Cotton Economic

60**

2.5

160

32

0.67

1600

•

40-60

Cotton Economic

40**

2.5

150

32

0.57

1600

•

40-60

BabyProtect

90

5

165

85

1.90

1600

*

•

30-90

Daily express

90

5

88

55

1.90

1400

•

•

Cold-90

Daily express

60

5

58

55

1.00

1400

•

•

Cold-90

Daily express

30

5

28

55

0.20

1400

•

•

Cold-90

Super short express

30

2

14

40

0.11

1400

•

•

Cold-30

Sports

40

3

101

48

0.45

800

• • • • •

Cold-40

Delicate

30

2

59

43

0.23

600

• • •

Cold-40

Hand wash

20

1

43

30

0.15

600

Woollens

40

1.5

60

40

0.30

600

•

•

Cold-40

Darkcare

40

2.5

107

58

0.45

800

*

•

Cold-40

Shirts

60

2.5

104

55

0.90

600

• • •

•

Cold-60

Mix40

40

3

115

45

0.50

800

• • • • • •

Cold-40

Synthetics

60

2.5

116

45

0.90

800

• • • • • •

Cold-60

Synthetics

40

2.5

106

45

0.42

800

• • • • • •

Cold-60

Programme

•

Temperature

20

*

• : Selectable
* : Automatically selected, no canceling.
** : Energy Label programme (EN 60456 Ed.3)
*** : If maximum spin speed of the machine is lower then this value, you can only select up to the maximum spin speed.
** “Cotton eco 40°C and Cotton eco 60°C are standard cycles.” These cycles are known as ‘40°C cotton standard cycle’ and
‘60°C cotton standard cycle’ and indicated with the  
symbols on the panel.

C
C
C

The auxiliary functions in the table may vary according to the model of your machine.
Water and power consumption may vary subject to the changes in water pressure, water hardness and temperature, ambient
temperature, type and amount of laundry, selection of auxiliary functions and spin speed, and changes in electric voltage.
You can see the washing time of the programme you have selected on the display of the machine. It is normal that small
differences may occur between the time shown on the display and the real washing time.

11 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

4.10 Auxiliary function selection

Use the following auxiliary functions according to your
daily needs. Select the desired auxiliary functions before
starting the programme. Furthermore, you may also select
or cancel auxiliary functions that are suitable to the running
programme without pressing the Start / Pause button when
the machine is operating. For this, the machine must be in
a step before the auxiliary function you are going to select
or cancel.
If the auxiliary function cannot be selected or canceled, light
of the relevant auxiliary function will blink 3 times to warn
the user.

C

Some functions cannot be selected together. If a second
auxiliary function conflicting with the first one is selected
before starting the machine, the function selected
first will be canceled and the second auxiliary function
selection will remain active. For example, if you want to
select Quick Wash after you have selected the Prewash,
Prewash will be canceled and Quick Wash will remain
active.

C
C

An auxiliary function that is not compatible with the
programme cannot be selected. (See “Programme and
consumption table”)
Auxiliary Function buttons may vary according to the
model of the machine.

• Prewash
A Prewash is only worthwhile for heavily soiled laundry. Not
using the Prewash will save energy, water, detergent and
time.

C

Prewash without detergent is recommended for tulle
and curtains.

• Quick Wash
This function can be used in Cottons and Synthetics
programmes. It decreases the washing times and also the
number of rinsing steps for lightly soiled laundry.

C

When you select this function, load your machine with
half of the maximum laundry specified in the programme
table.

• Rinse Plus
This function enables the machine to make another rinsing
in addition to the one already made after the main wash.
Thus, the risk for sensitive skins (babies, allergic skins, etc.)
to be effected by the minimal detergent remnants on the
laundry can be reduced.
• Anti-Creasing
This function creases the clothes lesser when they are being
washed. Drum movement is reduced and spinning speed is
limited to prevent creasing. In addition, washing is done with
a higher water level. Use this function for delicate laundry
that creases easily.

12 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

• Rinse Hold
If you are not going to unload your clothes immediately after
the programme completes, you may use rinse hold function
to keep your laundry in the final rinsing water in order to
prevent them from getting wrinkled when there is no water
in the machine. Press Start / Pause button after this process
if you want to drain the water without spinning your laundry.
Programme will resume and complete after draining the
water.
If you want to spin the laundry held in water, adjust the Spin
Speed and press Start / Pause button.
The programme resumes. Water is drained, laundry is spun
and the programme is completed.
• Pet hair removal
This function helps to remove pet hair that remain on your
garments more effectively.
When you select this function, Prewash and Extra Rinse
steps are added to the normal programme. Thus, washing
is performed with more water (30%) and the pet hair is
removed more effectively.

A

Never wash your pets in the washing machine.

Delayed Start (In some models only)
With the Delayed Start function the startup of the
programme may be delayed up to 3, 6 or 9 hours.

C

Do not use liquid detergents when you set Delayed Start!
There is the risk of staining of the clothes.

C

Additional laundry may be loaded during the delayed
start period.

Open the loading door, place the laundry and put detergent,
etc. Select the washing programme, temperature, spin
speed and, if required, the auxiliary functions. Set the
desired time by pressing the Delayed Start button. When the
button is pressed once, 3 hours delayed start is selected.
When the same button is pressed again, 6 hours delay is
selected, and when it is pressed for the third time, 9 hours
delayed start is selected. If you press the Delayed Start
button once again, Delayed Start function will be canceled.  
Press Start / Pause button. Previous delayed start time light
turns off and next delayed start time light turns on after
every 3 hours.  At the end of the countdown, all delayed start
lights will turn off and the selected programme will start.

Changing the Delayed Start period
Press Delayed Start button. Every time the button is pressed,
the period will change in 3-hour increments and the light of
the selected delayed start time will turn on.
Canceling the Delayed Start function
If you want to cancel the delayed start countdown and start
the programme immediately:
Set the Delayed Start period to zero (all delayed start period
lights will turn off) or turn the Programme Selection knob
to any programme. Thus, Delayed Start function will be
canceled. The End/Cancel light flashes continuously.  Then,
select the programme you want to run again. Press Start /
Pause button to start the programme.

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

4.11 Starting the programme

Press Start / Pause button to start the programme.
Programme follow-up light showing the startup of the
programme will turn on.

C

If no programme is started or no key is pressed within
1 minute during programme selection process, the
machine will switch to Pause mode and the illumination
level of the temperature, speed and loading door
indicator lights will decrease. Other indicator lights and
indicators will turn off. Once the Programme Selection
knob is rotated or any button is pressed, indicator lights
and indicators will turn on again.

4.13 Progress of programme

Progress of a running programme can be followed from the
Programme Follow-up indicator. At the beginning of every
programme step, the relevant indicator light will turn on and
light of the completed step will turn off.
You can change the auxiliary functions, speed and
temperature settings without stopping the programme flow
while the programme is running. To do this, the change
you are going to make must be in a step after the running
programme step. If the change is not compatible, relevant
lights will flash for 3 times.

4.12 Child Lock

C

C

If the Programme Selection knob is turned when the
Child Lock is active, “Con” appears on the display.
The Child Lock does not allow any change in the
programmes and the selected temperature, speed and
auxiliary functions.

4.14 Loading door lock

C

Even if another programme is selected with the
Programme Selection knob while the Child Lock is
active, previously selected programme will continue
running.

C

When the Child Lock is active and the machine is
running, you can switch the machine to Pause mode
without deactivating the Child Lock by turning the
Programme Selection knob to On / Off position. When
you turn the Programme Selection knob afterwards, the
programme will resu

Use child lock function to prevent children from tampering
with the machine. Thus you can avoid any changes in a
running programme.

To activate the Child Lock:
Press and hold 1st and 2nd Auxiliary Function buttons for
3 seconds. The lights on the 1st and 2nd Auxiliary Function
buttons will flash while you keep the buttons pressed for 3
seconds.
To deactivate the Child Lock:
Press and hold 1st and 2nd auxiliary function buttons for 3
seconds while any programme is running. The lights on the
1st and 2nd Auxiliary Function buttons will flash while you
keep the buttons pressed for 3 seconds.

C

In addition to the method above, to deactivate the Child
Lock, switch the Programme Selection knob to On /
Off position when no programme is running, and select
another programme.

C

When the power is restored after a power failure or after
your machine is unplugged and plugged in again, the
Child Lock will not be deactivated when the machine
resumes operating.

13 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

If the machine does not pass to the spinning step,
Rinse Hold function might be active or the automatic
unbalanced load detection system might be activated
due to the unbalanced distribution of the laundry in the
machine.

There is a locking system on the loading door of the
machine that prevents opening of the door in cases when
the water level is unsuitable.
Loading door light will start flashing when the machine
is switched to Pause mode. Machine checks the level of
the water inside. If the level is suitable, Loading Door light
illuminates steadily within 1-2 minutes and the loading door
can be opened.
If the level is unsuitable, Loading Door light turns off and the
loading door cannot be opened. If you are obliged to open
the Loading Door while the Loading Door light is off, you
have to cancel the current programme; see “Canceling the
programme”.

Changing the selections after
programme has started

Switching the machine to pause mode
Press the Start / Pause button to switch the machine to
pause mode while a programme is running. The light of
the step which the machine is in starts flashing in the
Programme Follow-up indicator to show that the machine
has been switched to the pause mode.
Also, when the loading door is ready to be opened, Loading
Door light will also illuminate continuously in addition to the
programme step light.
Changing the speed and temperature settings for
auxiliary functions
Depending on the step the programme has reached, you
may cancel or activate the auxiliary functions; see, “Auxiliary
function selection”.
You may also change the speed and temperature settings;
see, “Spin speed selection” and “Temperature selection”.

C

If no change is allowed, the relevant light will flash for
3 times.

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

4.15 Adding or taking out laundry

Press the Start / Pause button to switch the machine to
pause mode. The programme follow-up light of the relevant
step during which the machine was switched into the pause
mode will flash. Wait until the Loading Door can be opened.
Open the Loading Door and add or take out the laundry.
Close the Loading Door. Make changes in auxiliary functions,
temperature and speed settings if necessary.  Press Start /
Pause button to start the machine.

5	 Maintenance and cleaning

Service life of the product extends and frequently faced
problems decrease if cleaned at regular intervals.

5.1 Cleaning the detergent drawer

Clean the detergent drawer at regular intervals (every
4-5 washing cycles) as shown below in order to prevent
accumulation of powder detergent in time.

4.16 Canceling the programme

To cancel the programme, turn the Programme Selection
knob to select another programme. Previous programme
will be canceled. End / Cancel light will flash continuously to
notify that the programme has been canceled.
Your machine will end the programme when you turn the
Programme Selection knob; however, it does not drain the
water inside. When you select and start a new programme,
the newly selected programme will start depending on the
step the previous programme was canceled in. For example,
it may take in additional water or continue to wash with the
water inside.

C

Depending on the step where the programme was
canceled in, you may have to put detergent and softener
again for the programme you have selected anew.

4.17 Your machine is equipped
with a “Standby Mode”

In case of not starting any programme or waiting without
making any other operation when the machine is turned
on by On/Off button and while it is in selection step or if
no other operation is performed approximately 2 minutes
after the programme you selected has come to an end, your
machine will automatically switch to energy saving mode.
Display brightness will decrease. In case of rotating the
Programme Selection knob or pressing any button, lights will
restore to their previous condition. This is not a fault.

1.	Press the dotted point on the siphon in the softener
compartment and pull towards you until the compartment
is removed from the machine.

C

If more than normal amount of water and softener
mixture starts to gather in the softener compartment, the
siphon must be cleaned.

2.	Wash the detergent drawer and the siphon with plenty of
lukewarm water in a washbasin. Wear protective gloves
or use an appropriate brush to avoid touching of the
residues in the drawer with your skin when cleaning.
3.	Insert the drawer back into its place after cleaning and
make sure that it is seated well.
If your detergent drawer is the one indicated in the following
figure:

C

Lift the rear part of the siphon to remove it as illustrated.
After performing the above mentioned cleaning
procedures, replace the siphon back to its seating and
push its front section downwards to make sure that the
locking tab engages.

5.2 Cleaning the loading door and the drum

Residues of softener, detergent and dirt may accumulate
in your machine in time and may cause unpleasant odours
and washing complaints. To avoid this, use the Drum
Cleaning programme. If your machine is not featured with
Drum Cleaning programme, use Cottons-90 programme
and select Additional Water or Extra Rinse auxiliary
functions as well. Run the programme without any laundry in
the machine. Before starting the programme, put max. 100
g of powder anti-limescale into the main wash detergent
compartment (compartment nr. 2). If the anti-limescale is in
tablet form, put only one tablet into compartment nr. 2. Dry
the inside of the bellow with a clean piece of cloth after the
programme has come to an end.

14 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

C
C

Repeat Drum Cleaning process in every 2 months.
Use an anti-limescale suitable for the washing machines.

After every washing make sure that no foreign substance is
left in the drum.

If the holes on the bellow shown in the figure is blocked,
open the holes using a toothpick.

C
A

Foreign metal substances will cause rust stains in the
drum. Clean the stains on the drum surface by using
cleaning agents for stainless steel. Never use steel wool
or wire wool.
warning:

Never use sponge or scrub materials. These
will damage the painted and plastic surfaces.

5.3 Cleaning the body and control panel

Wipe the body of the machine with soapy water or noncorrosive mild gel detergents as necessary, and dry with a
soft cloth.
Use only a soft and damp cloth to clean the control panel.

5.5 Draining remaining water and
cleaning the pump filter

The filter system in your machine prevents solid items
such as buttons, coins and fabric fibers clogging the pump
impeller during discharge of washing water. Thus, the water
will be discharged without any problem and the service life
of the pump will extend.
If the machine fails to drain water, the pump filter is clogged.
Filter must be cleaned whenever it is clogged or in every 3
months. Water must be drained off first to clean the pump
filter.
In addition, prior to transporting the machine (e.g., when
moving to another house) and in case of freezing of the
water, water may have to be drained completely.

A

warning:

Foreign substances left in the pump filter may
damage your machine or may cause noise problem.

In order to clean the dirty filter and discharge the water:
1.	Unplug the machine to cut off the supply power.

A

warning:

Temperature of the water inside the machine
may rise up to 90 ºC. To avoid burning risk, filter must be
cleaned after the water in the machine cools down.

2.	Open the filter cap.
	 If the filter cap is composed of two pieces, press the
tab on the filter cap downwards and pull the piece out
towards yourself.

5.4 Cleaning the water intake filters

There is a filter at the end of each water intake valve at the
rear of the machine and also at the end of each water intake
hose where they are connected to the tap. These filters
prevent foreign substances and dirt in the water to enter the
washing machine. Filters should be cleaned as they do get
dirty.

1.	Close the taps.
2.	Remove the nuts of the water intake hoses to access
the filters on the water intake valves. Clean them with an
appropriate brush. If the filters are too dirty, take them out
by means of pliers and clean them.
3.	Take out the filters on the flat ends of the water intake
hoses together with the gaskets and clean thoroughly
under running water.
4.	Replace the gaskets and filters carefully in their places
and tighten the hose nuts by hand.

15 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

If the filter cap is one piece, pull the cap from both sides at
the top to open.

C

You can remove the filter cover by slightly pushing
downwards with a thin plastic tipped tool, through the
gap above the filter cover. Do not use metal tipped tools
to remove the cover.

3.	Some of our products have emergency draining hose and
some does not have. Follow the steps below to discharge
the water.

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

Discharging the water when the product has an emergency
draining hose:

a.	 Pull the emergency draining hose out from its seat
b.	 Place a large container at the end of the hose. Drain the
water into the container by pulling out the plug at the end
of the hose. When the container is full, block the inlet
of the hose by replacing the plug. After the container is
emptied, repeat the above procedure to drain the water in
the machine completely.
c.	 When draining of water is finished, close the end by the
plug again and fix the hose in its place.
d.	 Turn the pump filter to take it out.
Discharging the water when the product does not have an
emergency draining hose:

a.	 Place a large container in front of the filter to catch water
from the filter.
b.	 Loosen pump filter (anticlockwise) until water starts to
flow. Fill the flowing water into the container you have
placed in front of the filter. Always keep a piece of cloth
handy to absorb any spilled water.
c.	 When the water inside the machine is finished, take out
the filter completely by turning it.
4.	Clean any residues inside the filter as well as fibers, if
any, around the pump impeller region.
5.	Install the filter.
6.	If the filter cap is composed of two pieces, close the filter
cap by pressing on the tab. If it is one piece, seat the tabs
in the lower part into their places first, and then press the
upper part to close.

16 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

Washing Machine / User’s Manual

6	 Technical specifications
WMB 50821 UY

WMB 51021 UY

Maximum dry laundry capacity (kg)

5

5

Height (cm)

84

84

Width (cm)

60

60

Depth (cm)

41.5

41.5

57

57

230 V / 50Hz

230 V / 50Hz

Total current (A)

10

10

Total power (W)

1550

1550

Spin speed (rpm/ min., max.)

800

1000

Stand-by mode power (W)

1.00

1.00

Off-mode power (W)

0.25

0.25

Main model code

9213

9213

Single Water inlet  / Double Water inlet

•/-

•/-

Models (EN)

Net weight (±4 kg.)
Electrical input (V/Hz)

• Available

C
C
C

Technical specifications may be changed without prior notice to improve the quality of the product.

Figures in this manual are schematic and may not match the product exactly.
Values stated on the product labels or in the documentation accompanying it are obtained in laboratory conditions in accordance
with the relevant standards. Depending on operational and environmental conditions of the product, these values may vary.

17 / 76 EN

Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com manuals search engine

Washing Machine / User’s Manual