SM-J320F
SM-J320F/DD
SM-J320F/DS SM-J320FN
SM-J320G/DS SM-J320H/DS
SM-J320Y

User Manual

English. 02/2016. Rev.1.0

www.samsung.com

Table of Contents
Basics

54	Gallery
55	 Smart Manager
57	 S Planner
59	Video
60	 Voice Recorder
61	 My Files
61	Memo
62	Clock
63	Calculator
64	Radio
65	 Google apps

4	 Read me first
5	 Package contents
6	 Device layout
8	Battery
14	 SIM or USIM card
18	 Memory card
20	 Turning the device on and off
20	Touchscreen
23	 Home screen
29	 Lock screen
30	 Notification panel
32	 Entering text
34	 Screen capture
34	 Opening apps
34	 Device and data management

Settings
67	Introduction
67	Wi-Fi
69	Bluetooth
70	 Flight mode
71	 Mobile hotspot and tethering
72	 Data usage
72	 SIM card manager (dual SIM models)
73	 Mobile networks
73	 NFC and payment (NFC-enabled
models)
76	 More connection settings
77	 Sounds and notifications
77	Display

Applications
38	 Installing or uninstalling apps
39	Phone
43	Contacts
44	Messages
46	Internet
47	Email
48	Camera

2

Table of Contents
78	Applications
78	Wallpaper
78	Themes
78	 Lock screen and security
79	Privacy
79	 Easy mode
80	Accessibility
81	Accounts
82	 Backup and reset
82	 Language and input
83	Battery
83	Storage
84	 Date and time
84	 User manual
84	 About device

Appendix
85	Troubleshooting

3

Basics
Read me first
Please read this manual before using the device to ensure safe and proper use.
• 	Descriptions are based on the device’s default settings.
• 	Some content may differ from your device depending on the region, service provider,
model specifications, or device’s software.
• 	Content (high quality content) that requires high CPU and RAM usage will affect the
overall performance of the device. Apps related to the content may not work properly
depending on the device’s specifications and the environment that it is used in.
• 	Samsung is not liable for performance issues caused by apps supplied by providers other
than Samsung.
• 	Samsung is not liable for performance issues or incompatibilities caused by edited
registry settings or modified operating system software. Attempting to customise the
operating system may cause the device or apps to work improperly.
• 	Software, sound sources, wallpapers, images, and other media provided with this device
are licensed for limited use. Extracting and using these materials for commercial or other
purposes is an infringement of copyright laws. Users are entirely responsible for illegal
use of media.
• 	You may incur additional charges for data services, such as messaging, uploading and
downloading, auto-syncing, or using location services depending on your data plan. For
large data transfers, it is recommended to use the Wi-Fi feature.
• 	Default apps that come with the device are subject to updates and may no longer be
supported without prior notice. If you have questions about an app provided with
the device, contact a Samsung Service Centre. For user-installed apps, contact service
providers.
• 	Modifying the device’s operating system or installing softwares from unofficial sources
may result in device malfunctions and data corruption or loss. These actions are violations
of your Samsung licence agreement and will void your warranty.
• 	Depending on the region, you can view the regulatory information on the device. To view
the information, tap Apps → Settings → About device → Regulatory information.

4

Basics

Instructional icons
Warning: situations that could cause injury to yourself or others
Caution: situations that could cause damage to your device or other equipment
Notice: notes, usage tips, or additional information

Package contents
Check the product box for the following items:
• 	Device
• 	Battery
• 	Quick start guide
• 	The items supplied with the device and any available accessories may vary
depending on the region or service provider.
• 	The supplied items are designed only for this device and may not be compatible
with other devices.
• 	Appearances and specifications are subject to change without prior notice.
• 	You can purchase additional accessories from your local Samsung retailer. Make
sure they are compatible with the device before purchase.
• 	Use only Samsung-approved accessories. Using unapproved accessories may cause
the performance problems and malfunctions that are not covered by the warranty.
• 	Availability of all accessories is subject to change depending entirely on
manufacturing companies. For more information about available accessories, refer
to the Samsung website.

5

Basics

Device layout
Headset jack

Speaker
Front camera
Proximity sensor

Touchscreen

Power key

Home key

Recents key
Back key
Microphone

Multipurpose jack

Rear camera
GPS antenna
Loud speaker

Flash

Volume key

Back cover

NFC antenna
(NFC-enabled models)

Main antenna

6

Basics
• 	Do not cover the antenna area with your hands or other objects. This may cause
connectivity problems or drain the battery.
• 	Using a Samsung-approved screen protector is recommended. Unapproved screen
protectors may cause the sensors to malfunction.
• 	Do not allow water to contact the touchscreen. The touchscreen may malfunction
in humid conditions or when exposed to water.

Keys
Key

Function
Power
Recents

• 	Press and hold to turn the device on or off.
• 	Press to turn on or lock the screen.
• 	Tap to open the list of recent apps.
• 	Press to turn on the screen while the screen is locked.

Home

• 	Press to return to the Home screen.
• 	Press and hold to launch Google.

Back

• 	Tap to return to the previous screen.

Volume

• 	Press to adjust the device volume.

7

Basics

Battery
Installing the battery

1	 Remove the back cover.

Be careful not to damage your fingernails when you remove the back cover.
Do not bend or twist the back cover excessively. Doing so may damage the cover.

2	 Insert the battery with the battery’s gold-coloured contacts properly aligned with the
device’s contacts.

2

1

8

Basics

3	 Replace the back cover.

Removing the battery

1	 Remove the back cover.
2	 Pull out the battery.

9

Basics

Charging the battery
Charge the battery before using it for the first time or when it has been unused for extended
periods.
Use only Samsung-approved chargers, batteries, and cables. Unapproved chargers or
cables can cause the battery to explode or damage the device.

1	 Connect the USB cable to the USB power adaptor, and then plug the end of the USB cable
into the multipurpose jack.

Connecting the charger improperly may cause serious damage to the device. Any
damage caused by misuse is not covered by the warranty.

10

Basics

2	 Plug the USB power adaptor into an electric socket.
3	 After fully charging, disconnect the device from the charger. First unplug the charger
from the device, and then unplug it from the electric socket.

Do not remove the battery before removing the charger. This may damage the
device.
To save energy, unplug the charger when not in use. The charger does not have a
power switch, so you must unplug the charger from the electric socket when not in
use to avoid wasting power. The charger should remain close to the electric socket
and easily accessible while charging.

Viewing the remaining charging time
While charging, open the Home screen and tap Apps → Settings → Battery.
The actual charging time may vary depending on the status of your device and the
charging conditions. The remaining charging time may not be displayed when you
charge the device in very cold or very hot conditions.

Reducing the battery consumption
Your device provides various options that help you conserve battery power.
• 	Optimise the device using the Smart manager.
• 	When you are not using the device, switch to sleep mode by pressing the Power key.
• 	Activate power saving mode.
• 	Close unnecessary apps.
• 	Deactivate the Bluetooth feature when not in use.
• 	Deactivate the Wi-Fi feature when not in use.
• 	Deactivate auto-syncing of apps.
• 	Decrease the backlight time.
• 	Decrease the screen brightness.

11

Basics

Battery charging tips and precautions
• 	When the battery power is low, the battery icon appears empty.
• 	If the battery is completely discharged, the device cannot be turned on immediately
when the charger is connected. Allow a depleted battery to charge for a few minutes
before turning on the device.
• 	If you use multiple apps at once, network apps, or apps that need a connection to
another device, the battery will drain quickly. To avoid disconnecting from the network
or losing power during a data transfer, always use these apps after fully charging the
battery.
• 	Using a power source other than the charger, such as a computer, may result in a slower
charging speed due to a lower electric current.
• 	The device can be used while it is charging, but it may take longer to fully charge the
battery.
• 	If the device receives an unstable power supply while charging, the touchscreen may not
function. If this happens, unplug the charger from the device.
• 	While charging, the device and the charger may heat up. This is normal and should not
affect the device’s lifespan or performance. If the battery gets hotter than usual, the
charger may stop charging.
• 	If the device is not charging properly, take the device and the charger to a Samsung
Service Centre.

12

Basics

Power saving mode
Save the battery power by limiting the device’s functions.
On the Home screen, tap Apps → Settings → Battery → Power saving mode, and then tap
the switch to activate it.
To automatically activate power saving mode when the remaining battery power reaches the
preset level, tap Start power saving and select an option.

Ultra power saving mode
Use this mode to extend the device’s battery power. In ultra power saving mode, the device
performs the following:
• 	Displays colours on the screen as grey tones.
• 	Restricts the available apps to essential and selected apps only.
• 	Deactivates the mobile data connection when the screen turns off.
• 	Deactivates the Wi-Fi and Bluetooth features.
On the Home screen, tap Apps → Settings → Battery → Ultra power saving mode, and
then tap the switch to activate it.
To deactivate ultra power saving mode, tap MORE → Disable Ultra power saving mode.
The usage time left shows the time remaining before the battery power runs
out. Usage time left may vary depending on your device settings and operating
conditions.

13

Basics

SIM or USIM card
Installing the SIM or USIM card
Insert the SIM or USIM card provided by the mobile telephone service provider.
• 	Only microSIM cards work with the device.
• 	Some LTE services may not be available depending on the service provider. For
more information about service availability, contact your service provider.

1	 Remove the back cover and battery.
2	 ► Single SIM models: Insert the SIM or USIM card with the gold-coloured contacts
facing downwards.

14

Basics
► Dual SIM models: Insert the SIM or USIM card with the gold-coloured contacts facing
downwards.
Insert the primary SIM or USIM card into SIM card slot 1 ( 1 ) and the secondary SIM or
USIM card into SIM card slot 2 ( 2 ).

1
2

• 	Do not insert a memory card into the SIM card slot. If a memory card happens to
be lodged in the SIM card slot, take the device to a Samsung Service Centre to
remove the memory card.
• 	Use caution not to lose or let others use the SIM or USIM card. Samsung is not
responsible for any damages or inconveniences caused by lost or stolen cards.

3	 Replace the battery and back cover.

15

Basics

Removing the SIM or USIM card

1	 Remove the back cover and battery.
2	 Pull out the SIM or USIM card.
► Single SIM models:

► Dual SIM models:

16

Basics

Using dual SIM or USIM cards (dual SIM models)
If you insert two SIM or USIM cards, you can have two phone numbers or service providers for
a single device.

Activating SIM or USIM cards
On the Home screen, tap Apps → Settings → SIM card manager. Select a SIM or USIM card
and tap the switch to activate it.

Changing the display name and icon of SIM or USIM cards
On the Home screen, tap Apps → Settings → SIM card manager. Select a SIM or USIM card,
tap Name or Icon. Set a display name and icon for each card.

Switching between cards
When two SIM or USIM cards are activated, card selection icons appear on the dashboard of
the notification panel. Open the notification panel and then select a card.

17

Basics

Memory card
Installing a memory card
Your device accepts memory cards with maximum capacities of 128 GB. Depending on the
memory card manufacturer and type, some memory cards may not be compatible with your
device.
• 	Some memory cards may not be fully compatible with the device. Using an
incompatible card may damage the device or the memory card, or corrupt the data
stored in it.
• 	Use caution to insert the memory card right-side up.
• 	The device supports the FAT and the exFAT file systems for memory cards. When
inserting a card formatted in a different file system, the device asks to reformat the
memory card.
• 	Frequent writing and erasing of data shortens the lifespan of memory cards.
• 	When inserting a memory card into the device, the memory card’s file directory
appears in the My Files → SD card folder.

1	 Remove the back cover and battery.
2	 Insert a memory card with the gold-coloured contacts facing downwards.

3	 Replace the battery and back cover.

18

Basics

Removing the memory card
Before removing the memory card, first unmount it for safe removal.
On the Home screen, tap Apps → Settings → Storage → Unmount SD card.

1	 Remove the back cover and battery.
2	 Pull out the memory card.
3	 Replace the battery and back cover.
Do not remove the memory card while the device is transferring or accessing
information. Doing so can cause data to be lost or corrupted or damage to the
memory card or device. Samsung is not responsible for losses that result from the
misuse of damaged memory cards, including the loss of data.

Formatting the memory card
A memory card formatted on a computer may not be compatible with the device. Format the
memory card on the device.
On the Home screen, tap Apps → Settings → Storage → Format SD card → FORMAT SD
CARD → ERASE EVERYTHING.
Before formatting the memory card, remember to make backup copies of all
important data stored in the memory card. The manufacturer’s warranty does not
cover loss of data resulting from user actions.

19

Basics

Turning the device on and off
Press and hold the Power key for a few seconds to turn on the device.
When you turn on your device for the first time or after performing a data reset, follow the onscreen instructions to set up your device.
To turn off the device, press and hold the Power key, and then tap Power off.
• 	If your device is frozen and unresponsive, press and hold the Power key and the
Volume key down simultaneously for more than 7 seconds to restart it.
• 	Follow all posted warnings and directions from authorised personnel in areas
where the use of wireless devices is restricted, such as aeroplanes and hospitals.

Touchscreen
• 	Do not allow the touchscreen to come into contact with other electrical devices.
Electrostatic discharges can cause the touchscreen to malfunction.
• 	To avoid damaging the touchscreen, do not tap it with anything sharp or apply
excessive pressure to it with your fingertips.
• 	The device may not recognise touch inputs close to the edges of the screen, which
are outside of the touch input area.
• 	Leaving the touchscreen idle for extended periods may result in afterimages
(screen burn-in) or ghosting. Turn off the touchscreen when you do not use the
device.
• 	It is recommended to use fingers when you use the touchscreen.

20

Basics

Tapping
To open an app, to select a menu item, to press an on-screen button, or to enter a character
using the keyboard on the screen, tap it with your finger.

Tapping and holding
Tap and hold an item or the screen for more than 2 seconds to access available options.

Dragging
To move an item, tap and hold it and drag it to the target position.

21

Basics

Double-tapping
Double-tap on a webpage or image to zoom in. Double-tap again to return.

Swiping
Swipe to the left or right on the Home screen or the Apps screen to view other panels. Swipe
upwards or downwards to scroll through a webpage or a list of items, such as contacts.

Spreading and pinching
Spread two fingers apart on a webpage, map, or image to zoom in a part. Pinch to zoom out.

22

Basics

Home screen
Home screen
The Home screen is the starting point for accessing all of the device’s features. It displays
widgets, shortcuts to apps, and more.
To view other panels, swipe to the left or right.

A widget
An app

A folder
Screen indicators
Apps screen icon

Favourite apps

23

Basics

Home screen options
On the Home screen, tap and hold an empty area, or pinch your fingers together to access
the available options. Customise the Home screen by adding, deleting, or rearranging Home
screen panels. You can also set the Home screen wallpaper, add widgets to the Home screen,
and more.
• 	Wallpapers: Change the wallpaper settings for the Home screen and the locked screen.
• 	Widgets: Add widgets to the Home screen. Widgets are small apps that launch specific
app functions to provide information and convenient access on your Home screen.
• 	Themes: Change the device’s theme. Visual elements of interface, such as colours, icons,
and wallpapers, will change depending on the selected theme.

24

Basics

Adding items
Tap and hold an app or a folder from the Apps screen, and then drag it to the Home screen.
To add widgets, tap and hold an empty area on the Home screen, tap Widgets, tap and hold a
widget, and then drag it to the Home screen.

Moving and removing an item
Tap and hold an item on the Home screen, and then drag it to a new location.
To move the item to another panel, drag it to the side of the screen.
You can also move frequently used apps to the shortcuts area at the bottom of the Home
screen.
To remove an item, tap and hold the item. Then, drag it to Remove at the top of the screen.

Creating folders

1	 On the Home screen, tap and hold an app, and then drag it over another app.
2	 Drop the app when a folder frame appears around the apps.
A new folder containing the selected apps will be created.

3	 Enter a folder name.
To change the folder colour, tap

.

To add more apps to the folder, tap and hold another app, and then drag it to the folder.

25

Basics

Managing panels
On the Home screen, tap and hold an empty area to add, move, or remove a panel.
To add a panel, swipe to the left, and then tap

.

To move a panel, tap and hold a panel preview, and then drag it to a new location.
To remove a panel, tap and hold a panel preview, and then drag it to Remove at the top of
the screen.
To set a panel as the main Home screen, tap

.

Apps screen
The Apps screen displays icons for all apps, including newly installed apps.
On the Home screen, tap Apps to open the Apps screen. To view other panels, swipe to the
left or right.

Moving items
This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
On the Apps screen, tap EDIT. Tap and hold an item and drag it to a new location.
To move the item to another panel, drag it to the side of the screen.

26

Basics

Creating folders
This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap EDIT.
2	 Tap and hold an app, and then drag it over another app.
3	 Drop the app when a folder frame appears around the apps.
A new folder containing the selected apps will be created.

4	 Enter a folder name.
To change the folder colour, tap

.

To add more apps to the folder, tap and hold another app, and then drag it to the folder.

27

Basics

Indicator icons
Indicator icons appear on the status bar at the top of the screen. The icons listed in the table
below are most common.
The status bar may not appear at the top of the screen in some apps. To display the
status bar, drag down from the top of the screen.
Icon

Meaning
No signal

/

Signal strength

/

Currently accessing SIM or USIM card (dual SIM models)

/

Roaming (outside of normal service area)
GPRS network connected
EDGE network connected
UMTS network connected
HSDPA network connected
HSPA+ network connected

/

LTE network connected (LTE-enabled models)
Wi-Fi connected
Bluetooth feature activated
GPS activated
Call in progress
Missed call
New text or multimedia message
Alarm activated

28

Basics

Icon

Meaning
Mute mode activated
Vibration mode activated
Flight mode activated
Error occurred or caution required
Battery power level

Lock screen
Pressing the Power key turns off the screen and locks it. Also, the screen turns off and
automatically locks if the device is not used for a specified period.
To unlock the screen, press the Power key or the Home key and swipe in any direction.

You can change the way that you lock the screen to prevent others from accessing your
personal information.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Lock screen and security → Screen lock type, and then
select a screen lock method. The device requires an unlock code whenever unlocking it.
If the unlock code is forgotten, take the device to a Samsung Service Centre to reset it.

Pattern
Draw a pattern by connecting four dots or more, and then draw the pattern again to verify it.
Set a backup PIN to unlock the screen when you forget the pattern.

29

Basics

PIN
A PIN consists of numbers only. Enter at least four numbers, and then enter the password
again to verify it.

Password
A password consists of characters and numbers. Enter at least four characters including
numbers and symbols, and then enter the password again to verify it.

Notification panel
Using the notification panel
When you receive new notifications, such as messages or missed calls, indicator icons appear
on the status bar. To see more information about the icons, open the notification panel and
view the details.
To open the notification panel, drag the status bar downwards. To close the notification panel,
swipe upwards on the screen.

30

Basics
You can use the following functions on the notification panel.
► Single SIM models:
Quick setting buttons

Rearrange quick setting buttons.
Launch Settings.

Adjust the brightness.

Maximise brightness for better
visibility in bright conditions.

Tap a notification and perform
various actions.

Clear all notifications.

► Dual SIM models:
Quick setting buttons

Rearrange quick setting buttons.
Launch Settings.

Adjust the brightness.

Maximise brightness for better
visibility in bright conditions.
Select a SIM or USIM card.

Tap a notification and perform
various actions.

Clear all notifications.

31

Basics

Using quick setting buttons
Tap quick setting buttons to activate some features. Swipe to the left or right on the buttons
area to view more buttons. To view more detailed settings, tap and hold a button.
To rearrange buttons, tap EDIT, tap and hold a button, and then drag it to another location.

Entering text
Keyboard layout
A keyboard appears automatically when you enter text to send messages, create memos, and
more.
Text entry is not supported in some languages. To enter text, you must change the
input language to one of the supported languages.

Enter uppercase. For all caps, tap
it twice.

Delete a preceding character.

Enter punctuation marks.

Break to the next line.

Change the keyboard settings.

Enter a space.

Changing the input language
Tap → Add input languages, and then select the languages to use. When you select two
or more languages, you can switch between the input languages by swiping to the left or
right on the space key.

Changing the keyboard layout
Tap

, select a language under Input languages, and then select a keyboard layout to use.
On 3x4 keyboard, a key has three or four characters. To enter a character, tap the
corresponding key repeatedly until the desired character appears.

32

Basics

Additional keyboard functions
Tap and hold to use various functions. Other icons may appear instead of the
depending on the last function that was used.

icon

• 	 : Enter text by voice.

Start or pause entering text by
voice.

Open the keyboard.

• 	 : Enter emoticons.
• 	 : Change the keyboard settings.

Copying and pasting

1	 Tap and hold over text.
2	 Drag or to select the desired text, or tap Select all to select all text.
3	 Tap Copy or Cut.
The selected text is copied to the clipboard.

4	 Tap and hold where the text is to be inserted and tap Paste.

33

Basics

Screen capture
Capture a screenshot while using the device.
Press and hold the Home key and the Power key simultaneously. You can view captured
images in Gallery.
It is not possible to capture a screenshot while using some apps and features.

Opening apps
On the Home screen or the Apps screen, select an app icon to open it.
To open an app from the list of recently used apps, tap

and select a recent app window.

Closing an app
Tap
and drag a recent app window to the left or right to close it. To close all running apps,
tap CLOSE ALL.

Device and data management
Transferring data from your previous device
You can transfer data from a previous device to your new device via Samsung Smart Switch.
The following versions of Samsung Smart Switch are available.
• 	Mobile version: Transfer data between mobile devices. You can download the app from
Galaxy Apps or Play Store.
• 	Computer version: Transfer data between your device and a computer. You can download
the app from www.samsung.com/smartswitch.
• 	Samsung Smart Switch is not supported on some devices or computers.
• 	Limitations apply. Visit www.samsung.com/smartswitch for details. Samsung
takes copyright seriously. Only transfer content that you own or have the right to
transfer.

34

Basics

Transferring data from a mobile device
Transfer data from your previous device to your new device.
Download and install Smart Switch from Galaxy Apps or Play Store.
Launch Smart Switch and follow the on-screen instructions to transfer data from your
previous device.

Transferring data from a computer
Back up data from your previous device to a computer and import the data to your new
device.

1	 On the computer, visit www.samsung.com/smartswitch to download Smart Switch.
2	 On the computer, launch Smart Switch.
If your previous device is not a Samsung device, back up data to a computer using a
program provided by the device’s manufacturer. Then, skip to the fifth step.

3	 Connect your previous device to the computer using the USB cable.
4	 On the computer, follow the on-screen instructions to back up data from the device.
Then, disconnect your previous device from the computer.

5	 Connect your new device to the computer using the USB cable.
6	 On the computer, follow the on-screen instructions to transfer data to your new device.

35

Basics

Using the device as a removable disk for data transfer
Move audio, video, image, or other types of files from the device to the computer, or vice
versa.
Do not disconnect the USB cable from the device when you are transferring files.
Doing so may cause data loss or device damage.
The devices may not connect properly if they are connected via a USB hub. Directly
connect the device to the computer’s USB port.

1	 Connect the device to the computer using the USB cable.
2	 Open the notification panel, and then tap Connected as a media device → Media
device (MTP).

Tap Camera (PTP) if your computer does not support Media Transfer Protocol (MTP) or
not have any appropriate driver installed.

3	 Transfer files between your device and the computer.
Updating the device
The device can be updated to the latest software.

Updating over the air
The device can be directly updated to the latest software by the firmware over-the-air (FOTA)
service.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → About device → Software update → Download
updates manually.
To automatically check for available updates, tap the Download update
automatically switch to activate it. Updates will be downloaded only when the
device is connected to a Wi-Fi network.

36

Basics

Updating with Smart Switch
Connect the device to a computer and update the device to the latest software.

1	 On the computer, visit www.samsung.com/smartswitch to download and install Smart
Switch.

2	 On the computer, launch Smart Switch.
3	 Connect the device to the computer using a USB cable.
4	 If a software update is available, follow the on-screen instructions to update the device.
• 	Do not turn off the computer or disconnect the USB cable while the device is
updating.
• 	While updating the device, do not connect other media devices to the computer.
Doing so may interfere with the update process. Before updating, disconnect all
other media devices from the computer.

Backing up and restoring data
Keep your personal information, app data, and settings safe on your device. You can back up
your sensitive information to a backup account and access it later. You must sign in to your
Google account to back up or restore data. Refer to Accounts for more information.

Using a Google account
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Backup and reset, and then tap the Back up my data
switch to activate it. Tap Backup account and select an account as the backup account.
To restore data using a Google account, tap the Automatic restore switch to activate it. When
you reinstall apps, backed up settings and data will be restored.

Performing a data reset
Delete all settings and data on the device. Before performing a factory data reset, ensure you
back up all important data stored on the device. Refer to Backing up and restoring data for
more information.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Backup and reset → Factory data reset → RESET
DEVICE → ERASE EVERYTHING. The device automatically restarts.

37

Applications
Installing or uninstalling apps
Galaxy Apps
Purchase and download apps. You can download apps that are specialised for Samsung
Galaxy devices.
Tap Galaxy Apps on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Installing apps
Browse apps by category or tap SEARCH to search for a keyword.
Select an app to view information about it. To download free apps, tap INSTALL. To purchase
and download apps where charges apply, tap the price and follow the on-screen instructions.
To change the auto update settings, tap
then select an option.

→ Settings → Auto update apps, and

Play Store
Purchase and download apps.
Tap Play Store on the Apps screen.

Installing apps
Browse apps by category or tap the search field to search for a keyword.
Select an app to view information about it. To download free apps, tap INSTALL. To purchase
and download apps where charges apply, tap the price and follow the on-screen instructions.
To change the auto update settings, tap
then select an option.

38

→ Settings → Auto-update apps, and

Applications

Managing apps
Uninstalling or disabling apps
On the Apps screen, tap EDIT. The
icon appears on the apps that you can disable or
uninstall. Select an app and tap DISABLE or UNINSTALL. Alternatively, on the Apps screen,
tap Settings → Applications → Application manager, select an app, and then tap DISABLE
or UNINSTALL.
• 	DISABLE: Disable selected default apps that cannot be uninstalled from the device.
• 	UNINSTALL: Uninstall downloaded apps.

Enabling apps
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Applications → Application manager, scroll to
DISABLED, select an app, and then tap ENABLE.

Phone
Introduction
Make or answer voice and video calls.

Making calls

1	 Tap Phone on the Apps screen.
2	 Enter a phone number.
If the keypad does not appear on the screen, tap

39

to open the keypad.

Applications

3	 ► Single SIM models: Tap

to make a voice call, or tap

to make a video call.
Access additional options.

Add the number to the contacts
list.

Preview the phone number.
Delete a preceding character.

Hide the keypad.

► Dual SIM models: Tap

or

to make a voice call, or tap

to make a video call.

Access additional options.
Add the number to the contacts
list.

Preview the phone number.
Delete a preceding character.

Hide the keypad.

40

Applications

Making calls from the locked screen
On the locked screen, drag

outside the large circle.

Making calls from call logs or contacts list
Tap LOG or CONTACTS, and then swipe to the right on a contact or a phone number to make
a call.

Making an international call

1	 Tap to open the keypad if the keypad does not appear on the screen.
2	 Tap and hold 0 until the + sign appears.
3	 ► Single SIM models: Enter the country code, area code, and phone number, and then
tap

.

► Dual SIM models: Enter the country code, area code, and phone number, and then
tap or .

Receiving calls
Answering a call
When a call comes in, drag

outside the large circle.

Rejecting a call
When a call comes in, drag

outside the large circle.

To send a message when rejecting an incoming call, drag the reject message bar upwards.
To create various rejection messages, open the Apps screen and tap Phone → MORE →
Settings → Call rejection → Call-reject messages, enter a message, and then tap .

Missed calls
If a call is missed, the
icon appears on the status bar. Open the notification panel to view
the list of missed calls. Alternatively, on the Apps screen, tap Phone → LOG to view missed
calls.

41

Applications

Options during calls
During a voice call
The following actions are available:
• 	Add call: Dial a second call.
• 	Extra volume: Increase the volume.
• 	Bluetooth: Switch to a Bluetooth headset if it is connected to the device.
• 	Speaker: Activate or deactivate the speakerphone. When using the speakerphone, keep
the device away from your ears.
• 	Keypad / Hide: Open or close the keypad.
• 	Mute: Turn off the microphone so that the other party cannot hear you.
• 	Email: Send an email.
• 	Message: Send a message.
• 	Internet: Browse webpages.
• 	Contacts: Open the contacts list.
• 	S Planner: Open the calendar.
• 	Memo: Create a memo.
• 	

: End the current call.

During a video call
Tap the screen to use the following options:
• 	Switch : Switch between the front and rear cameras.
• 	

: End the current call.

• 	Mute : Turn off the microphone so that the other party cannot hear you.

42

Applications

Contacts
Introduction
Create new contacts or manage contacts on the device.

Adding contacts
Creating contacts manually

1	 Tap Contacts on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap and select a storage location.
3	 Enter contact information.
• 	

: Add an image.

• 	 /

: Add or delete a contact field.

4	 Tap SAVE.
To add a phone number to the contacts list from the keypad, open the Apps screen and tap
Phone. If the keypad does not appear on the screen, tap
to open the keypad. Enter the
number and tap Add to Contacts.
To add a phone number to the contacts list from received calls or messages, open the Apps
screen and tap Phone → LOG → a contact → CREATE CONTACT.

Importing contacts
Import contacts from storage services to your device.
On the Apps screen, tap Contacts → MORE → Settings → Import/Export contacts →
IMPORT and select an import option.

43

Applications

Searching for contacts
On the Apps screen, tap Contacts.
Use one of the following search methods:
• 	Scroll up or down the contacts list.
• 	Tap the search field at the top of the contacts list and enter search criteria.
Once a contact is selected, take one of the following actions:
• 	

: Add to favourite contacts.

• 	 /

: Make a voice or video call.

• 	

: Compose a message.

• 	

: Compose an email.

Messages
Introduction
Send and view messages by conversation.

Sending messages
You may incur additional charges for sending messages when you are roaming.

1	 Tap Messages on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap .

44

Applications

3	 Add recipients and enter a message.
► Single SIM models:
Access additional options.
Enter recipients.
Select contacts from the
contacts list.

Enter a message.
Attach files.

Send the message.

► Dual SIM models:
Access additional options.
Enter recipients.
Select contacts from the
contacts list.

Enter a message.
Attach files.

Send the message.

4	 ► Single SIM models: Tap SEND to send the message.
► Dual SIM models: Tap

or

to send the message.

Viewing messages
Messages are grouped into message threads by contact.
You may incur additional charges for receiving messages when you are roaming.

1	 Tap Messages on the Apps screen.
2	 On the messages list, select a contact.
3	 View your conversation.

45

Applications

Internet
Browse the Internet to search for information and bookmark your favourite webpages to
access them conveniently.

1	 Tap Internet on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap the address field.
3	 Enter the web address or a keyword, and then tap Go.
To view the toolbars, drag your finger downwards slightly on the screen.
Access additional options.

Refresh the current webpage.

Open the homepage.

View your bookmarks, saved
webpages, and recent history.
Open the browser's tab
manager.

Move to the previously visited
page.

46

Applications

Email
Setting up email accounts
Set up an email account when opening Email for the first time.

1	 Tap Email on the Apps screen.
2	 Enter the email address and password, and then tap NEXT.
To manually register a company email account, tap MANUAL SETUP.

3	 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup.
To set up another email account, tap MORE → Settings → Add account.
If you have more than one email account, you can set one as the default account. Tap MORE
→ Settings → MORE → Set default account.

Sending emails

1	 Tap to compose an email.
2	 Add recipients and enter an email text.
3	 Tap SEND to send the mail.
Reading emails
On the emails list, tap an email to read.

47

Applications

Camera
Introduction
Take photos and record videos using various modes and settings.

Basic shooting
You can take photos or record videos. View your photos and videos in Gallery.
Tap Camera on the Apps screen.
Camera etiquette
• 	Do not take photos or record videos of other people without their permission.
• 	Do not take photos or record videos where legally prohibited.
• 	Do not take photos or record videos in places where you may violate other people’s
privacy.

Taking photos or recording videos

1	 Tap the image on the preview screen where the camera should focus.
2	 Tap to take a photo or tap to record a video.
• 	Spread two fingers apart on the screen to zoom in, and pinch to zoom out.
• 	To capture an image from the video while recording, tap Capture.
• 	To change the focus while recording a video, tap where you want to focus. To focus on
the centre of the screen, tap .
Current mode

Preview thumbnail

Hide or show the
setting icons.
Record a video.
Quick settings

Take a photo.
Switch between the
front and rear
cameras.

Camera settings

Shooting modes

48

Applications
On the preview screen, swipe to the right to access the list of shooting modes. Or, swipe to
the left to view photos and videos you have captured.
• 	The preview screen may vary depending on the shooting mode and which camera
is being used.
• 	The camera automatically shuts off when unused.
• 	Make sure that the lens is clean. Otherwise, the device may not work properly in
some modes that require high resolutions.
• 	The front camera features a wide-angle lens. Minor distortion may occur in wideangle photos and does not indicate device performance problems.

Launching Camera on the locked screen
To quickly take photos, launch Camera on the locked screen.
On the locked screen, drag

outside the large circle.

• 	This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
• 	Some camera features are not available when you launch Camera from the locked
screen while the security features are activated.

Launching Camera quickly
Press the Home key twice quickly to launch Camera. Camera always launches in auto mode.
Some camera features are not available when you launch Camera from the locked
screen or when the screen is turned off while the security features are activated.

Locking the focus and exposure
Strong light/dark contrast and the subject being outside the auto focus area may make it
difficult to achieve an appropriate exposure. Lock the focus or exposure and then take a
photo.
Tap and hold the area to focus, the AF/AE frame will appear on the area and the focus and
exposure setting will be locked.
The setting remains locked even after you take a photo.
This feature is only available in some shooting modes.

49

Applications

Auto mode
Auto mode allows the camera to evaluate the surroundings and determine the ideal mode
for the photo.
On the preview screen, tap MODE → Auto.

Pro mode
Take photos while manually adjusting various shooting options, such as exposure value and
ISO value.
On the preview screen, tap MODE → Pro. Select options and customise the settings, and
to take a photo.
then tap
• 	

: Select an appropriate white balance, so images have a true-to-life colour range.

• 	
: Select an ISO value. This controls camera light sensitivity. Low values are for
stationary or brightly lit objects. Higher values are for fast-moving or poorly lit objects.
However, higher ISO settings can result in noise in photos.
• 	 : Change the exposure value. This determines how much light the camera’s sensor
receives. For low-light situations, use a higher exposure.

Panorama
Take a series of photos horizontally or vertically and then stitch them together to create a
wide scene.
On the preview screen, tap MODE → Panorama.
To get the best shots using panorama mode, follow these tips:
• 	Move the camera slowly in one direction.
• 	Keep the image within the frame on the camera’s viewfinder.
• 	Avoid taking photos of indistinct backgrounds, such as an empty sky or a plain
wall.

50

Applications

Continuous shot
Take a series of photos of moving subjects.
On the preview screen, tap MODE → Continuous shot.
Tap and hold

to take several photos continuously.

Beauty face
Take a photo with lightened faces for gentler images.
On the preview screen, tap MODE → Beauty face.

Selfie
Take self-portraits with the front camera.

1	 On the preview screen, tap to switch to the front camera for self-portraits.
2	 Tap MODE → Selfie.
3	 Face the front camera lens.
4	 When the device detects your face, tap the screen to take a photo of yourself.
To take a photo using your palm, tap and tap the Gesture control switch to activate it.
Show your palm to the front camera. After recognising your palm, the device will take a
photo after a few seconds.

Sound&shot
Take a photo with sound. The device identifies the photos with
On the preview screen, tap MODE → Sound & shot.

Sports
Take a photo of fast-moving subjects.
On the preview screen, tap MODE → Sports.

51

in Gallery.

Applications

HDR (Rich tone)
Take photos with rich colours and reproduce details even in bright and dark areas.
On the preview screen, tap MODE → HDR (Rich tone).

Without effect

With effect

Camera settings
Quick settings
On the preview screen, use the following quick settings.
The available options may vary depending on the shooting mode and which camera
is being used.
• 	 : Select a filter effect to use when taking photos or recording videos.
• 	 : Select the length of the delay before the camera automatically takes a photo.
• 	

: Adjust the slide bar to take a photo with lightened faces for gentler images.

• 	 : Activate or deactivate the flash.

52

Applications

Camera settings
On the preview screen, tap

.

The available options may vary depending on the shooting mode and which camera
is being used.
• 	Picture size (rear) / Picture size (front): Select a resolution for photos. Using a higher
resolution will result in higher quality photos, but they will take up more memory.
• 	Video size (rear) / Video size (front): Select a resolution for videos. Using a higher
resolution will result in higher quality videos, but they will take up more memory.
• 	Gesture control: Set the device to detect your palm, so you can use it to take selfportraits.
• 	Save pictures as previewed: Invert the image to create a mirror-image of the original
scene, when taking photos with the front camera.
• 	Grid lines: Display viewfinder guides to help composition when selecting subjects.
• 	Location tags: Attach a GPS location tag to the photo.
• 	GPS signal strength may decrease in locations where the signal is obstructed, such
as between buildings or in low-lying areas, or in poor weather conditions.
• 	Your location may appear on your photos when you upload them to the Internet.
To avoid this, deactivate the location tag setting.
• 	Review pictures: Set the device to show photos after capturing them.
• 	Quick launch: Set the device to launch the camera by pressing the Home key twice
quickly.
• 	Storage location: Select the memory location for storage.
• 	Volume keys function: Set the device to use the Volume key to control the shutter or
zoom function.
• 	Reset settings: Reset the camera settings.

53

Applications

Gallery
Introduction
View and manage photos and videos stored in the device.

Viewing images or videos

1	 Tap Gallery on the Apps screen.
2	 Select an image or a video.
Video files show the

icon on the preview thumbnail. To play a video, tap

Move to the previous screen.

More options

Share the image with others.

Modify the image.
Delete the image.

To hide or show the menus, tap the screen.

54

.

Applications

Deleting images or videos
Deleting an image or a video
Select an image or a video and tap Delete at the bottom of the screen.

Deleting multiple images and videos

1	 On the Gallery main screen, tap and hold an image or a video to delete.
2	 Tick the images or videos to delete.
3	 Tap DELETE.

Smart Manager
Introduction
The Smart manager provides an overview of the status of your device’s battery, storage, RAM,
and system security. You can also automatically optimise the device with one tap of your
finger.

55

Applications

Using the quick optimisation feature
On the Apps screen, tap Smart Manager → CLEAN ALL.
The quick optimisation feature improves device performance through the following actions.
• 	Identifying apps that use excessive battery power and clearing some memory.
• 	Deleting unnecessary files and closing apps running in the background.
• 	Scanning for malware.

Using the Smart manager
On the Apps screen, tap Smart Manager and select a feature.

Battery
Check the remaining battery power and time to use the device. For devices with low battery
levels, conserve battery power by activating power saving features and closing apps that are
consuming an excessive amount of battery power.
The usage time left shows the time remaining before the battery power runs
out. Usage time left may vary depending on your device settings and operating
conditions.

Storage
Check the status of used and available memory capacity. You can delete unused and residual
files or uninstall apps that you do not use any more.

RAM
Check the amount of available RAM. You can close background apps and reduce the amount
of RAM you are using to speed up your device.

Device security
Check the device’s security status. This feature scans your device for malware.

56

Applications

S Planner
Introduction
Manage your schedule by entering upcoming events or tasks in your planner.

Creating events

1	 Tap S Planner on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap or double-tap a date.
If the date already has saved events or tasks in it, tap the date and tap

.

3	 Enter event details.
Enter a title.

Set a start and end date for the
event.
Select a calendar to use or sync
with.

Set an alarm.
Enter the location of the event.
Add more details.

4	 Tap SAVE to save the event.

57

Applications

Creating tasks

1	 Tap S Planner on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap → Tasks.
3	 Enter task details and tap TODAY or TOMORROW to set a due date.
To add more details, tap

.

4	 Tap SAVE to save the task.
Syncing events and tasks with your accounts
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accounts, select an account service, and then tap the
Sync Calendar switch to sync events and tasks with the account.
To add accounts to sync with, open the Apps screen and tap S Planner → MORE → Manage
calendars → Add account. Then, select an account to sync with and sign in.

58

Applications

Video
Watch videos stored in the device and customise playback settings.
Tap Video on the Apps screen.
Select a video to play.
Access additional
options.
Pause and resume
playback.

Rewind or
fast-forward by
dragging the bar.
Change screen ratio.

Adjust the volume.

Skip to the previous
video. Tap and hold
to rewind.

Skip to the next
video. Tap and hold
to fast-forward.

59

Applications

Voice Recorder
Use this app to record or play voice memos.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Tools → Voice Recorder.
2	 Tap to start recording. Speak into the microphone.
Tap Pause to pause recording.
Tap Call rejection to automatically reject incoming calls while recording a voice memo.

Start recording.

3	 Tap

to finish recording.

60

Applications

My Files
Access and manage various files stored in the device.
On the Apps screen, tap Tools → My Files.
• 	Category: View files by category.
• 	Local storage: View files stored in the device.
• 	STORAGE USAGE: View your device’s memory information.
To search for files or folders, tap SEARCH.

Memo
Create memos and organise them by category.
On the Apps screen, tap Tools → Memo.

Composing memos
Tap
on the memos list and enter a memo. While composing a memo, use the following
options:
• 	Category: Create or set a category.
• 	Image: Insert images.
• 	Voice: Make a voice recording to insert.
• 	Tasks: Add tick boxes at the beginning of each row to create a list of tasks.
To save the memo, tap SAVE.
To edit a memo, tap a memo, and then tap the content of the memo.

Searching for memos
Tap SEARCH on the memos list and enter a keyword to search for memos that include the
keyword.

61

Applications

Clock
Introduction
Set alarms, check the current time in many cities around the world, time an event, or set a
specific duration.

Alarm
On the Apps screen, tap Clock → Alarm.

Setting alarms
Tap ADD in the alarms list, set an alarm time, select the days on which the alarm will repeat,
set other various alarm options, and then tap SAVE.
To open the keypad to enter an alarm time, tap KEYPAD.
To activate or deactivate alarms, tap the clock icon next to the alarm in the alarms list.

Stopping alarms
Tap DISMISS to stop an alarm. If you have previously enabled the snooze option, tap
SNOOZE to repeat the alarm after a specified length of time.

Deleting alarms
Tap

on an alarm in the list of alarms.

World clock
On the Apps screen, tap Clock → World clock.

Creating clocks
Tap ADD and enter a city name or select a city from the cities list.

Deleting clocks
Tap

on a clock.

62

Applications

Stopwatch

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Clock → Stopwatch.
2	 Tap START to time an event.
To record lap times while timing an event, tap LAP.

3	 Tap STOP to stop timing.
To restart the timing, tap RESUME.
To clear lap times, tap RESET.

Timer

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Clock → Timer.
2	 Set the duration, and then tap START.
To open the keypad to enter the duration, tap KEYPAD.

3	 Tap DISMISS when the timer goes off.

Calculator
Perform simple or complex calculations.
Tap Calculator on the Apps screen.
Rotate the device to landscape orientation to display the scientific calculator. If Screen
rotation is disabled, open the notification panel and tap Screen rotation to activate it.
To see the calculation history, tap HISTORY. To close the calculation history panel, tap
KEYPAD.
To clear the history, tap HISTORY → CLEAR HISTORY.

63

Applications

Radio
Listening to the FM radio
Tap Radio on the Apps screen.
Before you use this app, you must connect a headset, which serves as the radio antenna.
The FM radio scans and saves available stations automatically when running for the
first time.
Tap

to turn on the FM radio. Select the radio station you want from the stations list and tap
to return to the FM radio screen.
Scan and save available stations
automatically.
Access additional options.

Record a song from the FM radio.

Add the current radio station to
the favourites list.

Enter radio station frequency
manually.

Fine-tune the frequency.

Turn the FM radio on or off.
View the list of available stations.
Search for an available radio
station.

64

Applications

Scanning radio stations
Tap Radio on the Apps screen.
Tap SCAN, and then select a scan option. The FM radio scans and saves available stations
automatically.
Select the radio station you want from the stations list and tap
screen.

to return to the FM radio

Google apps
Google provides entertainment, social network, and business apps. You may require a Google
account to access some apps. Refer to Accounts for more information.
To view more app information, access each app’s help menu.
Some apps may not be available or may be labelled differently depending on the
region or service provider.

Chrome
Search for information and browse webpages.

Gmail
Send or receive emails via the Google Mail service.

Maps
Find your location on the map, search for locations, and view location information for various
places.

Play Music
Discover, listen to, and share music on your device.

65

Applications

Play Movies & TV
Watch videos stored on your device and download various content to watch from Play Store.

Drive
Store your content on the cloud, access it from anywhere, and share it with others.

YouTube
Watch or create videos and share them with others.

Photos
Search for, manage, and edit all your photos and videos from various sources in one place.

Hangouts
Chat with your friends individually or in groups and use images, emoticons, and video calls
while you are chatting.

Google
Search quickly for items on the Internet or your device.

Voice Search
Search quickly for items by saying a keyword or phrase.

Google Settings
Configure settings for some features provided by Google.

66

Settings
Introduction
Customise settings for functions and apps. You can make your device more personalised by
configuring various setting options.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings.
To search for settings by entering keywords, tap SEARCH.
To edit the list of frequently used settings, tap EDIT. Then, tick items to add or deselect items
to remove.

Wi-Fi
Connecting to a Wi-Fi network
Activate the Wi-Fi feature to connect to a Wi-Fi network and access the Internet or other
network devices.
Turn off Wi-Fi to save the battery when not in use.

1	 On the Settings screen, tap Wi-Fi, and then tap the switch to activate it.
2	 Select a network from the Wi-Fi networks list.
Networks that require a password appear with a lock icon.

3	 Tap CONNECT.
Once the device connects to a Wi-Fi network, the device will reconnect to that
network each time it is available without requiring a password. To prevent the device
connecting to the network automatically, select it from the list of networks and tap
FORGET.

67

Settings

Wi-Fi Direct
Wi-Fi Direct connects devices directly via a Wi-Fi network without requiring an access point.

1	 On the Settings screen, tap Wi-Fi, and then tap the switch to activate it.
2	 Tap Wi-Fi Direct.
The detected devices are listed.
If the device you want to connect to is not in the list, request that the device turns on its
Wi-Fi Direct feature.

3	 Select a device to connect to.
The devices will be connected when the other device accepts the Wi-Fi Direct
connections request.

Sending and receiving data
You can share data, such as contacts or media files, with other devices. The following actions
are an example of sending an image to another device.

1	 Tap Gallery on the Apps screen.
2	 Select an image.
3	 Tap Share → Wi-Fi Direct, select a device to transfer the image to, and then tap SHARE.
4	 Accept the Wi-Fi Direct connection request on the other device.
If the devices are already connected, the image will be sent to the other device without
the connection request procedure.

Ending the device connection

1	 Tap Wi-Fi on the Settings screen.
2	 Tap Wi-Fi Direct.
The device displays the connected devices in the list.

3	 Tap the device name to disconnect the devices.
68

Settings

Bluetooth
Introduction
Use Bluetooth to exchange data or media files with other Bluetooth-enabled devices.
• 	Samsung is not responsible for the loss, interception, or misuse of data sent or
received via Bluetooth.
• 	Always ensure that you share and receive data with devices that are trusted
and properly secured. If there are obstacles between the devices, the operating
distance may be reduced.
• 	Some devices, especially those that are not tested or approved by the Bluetooth
SIG, may be incompatible with your device.
• 	Do not use the Bluetooth feature for illegal purposes (for example, pirating copies
of files or illegally tapping communications for commercial purposes).
Samsung is not responsible for the repercussion of illegal use of the Bluetooth
feature.

Pairing with other Bluetooth devices

1	 On the Settings screen, tap Bluetooth, and then tap the switch to activate it.
The detected devices are listed.

2	 Select a device to pair with.
If your device has paired with the device before, tap the device name without confirming
the auto-generated passkey.
If the device you want to pair with is not in the list, request that the device turns on its
visibility option. Refer to the other device’s user manuals.
Your device is visible to other devices while the Bluetooth settings screen is open.

3	 Accept the Bluetooth connection request on your device to confirm.
The devices will be connected when the other device accepts the Bluetooth connection
request.

69

Settings

Sending and receiving data
Many apps support data transfer via Bluetooth. You can share data, such as contacts or media
files, with other Bluetooth devices. The following actions are an example of sending an image
to another device.

1	 Tap Gallery on the Apps screen.
2	 Select an image.
3	 Tap Share → Bluetooth, and then select a device to transfer the image to.
If the device you want to pair with is not in the list, request that the device turns on its
visibility option.

4	 Accept the Bluetooth connection request on the other device.
Unpairing Bluetooth devices

1	 Tap Bluetooth on the Settings screen.
The device displays the paired devices in the list.

2	 Tap next to the device name to unpair.
3	 Tap Unpair.

Flight mode
This disables all wireless functions on your device. You can use only non-network services.
On the Settings screen, tap Flight mode.
Make sure the device is turned off during takeoff and landing. After takeoff, you can
use the device in flight mode if allowed by aircraft personnel.

70

Settings

Mobile hotspot and tethering
Use the device as a mobile hotspot to share the device’s mobile data connection with other
devices when the network connection is not available. Connections can be made via Wi-Fi,
USB, or Bluetooth.
On the Settings screen, tap Mobile hotspot and tethering.
You may incur additional charges when using this feature.
• 	Mobile hotspot: Use the mobile hotspot to share the device’s mobile data connection
with computers or other devices.
• 	Bluetooth tethering: Use Bluetooth tethering to share the device’s mobile data
connection with computers or other devices via Bluetooth.
• 	USB tethering: Use USB tethering to share the device’s mobile data connection with
a computer via USB. When connected to a computer, the device is used as a wireless
modem for the computer.

Using the mobile hotspot
Use your device as a mobile hotspot to share your device’s mobile data connection with other
devices.

1	 On the Settings screen, tap Mobile hotspot and tethering → Mobile hotspot.
2	 Tap the switch to activate it.
The icon appears on the status bar. Other devices can find your device in the Wi-Fi
networks list.
To set a password for the mobile hotspot, tap MORE → Configure Mobile hotspot and
select the level of security. Then, enter a password and tap SAVE.

3	 On the other device’s screen, search for and select your device from the Wi-Fi networks
list.

4	 On the connected device, use the device’s mobile data connection to access the Internet.

71

Settings

Data usage
Keep track of your data usage amount and customise the settings for the limitation.
On the Settings screen, tap Data usage.
• 	Mobile data: Set the device to use data connections on any mobile network.
• 	Set mobile data limit: Set a limit for mobile data usage.
• 	Background data: Prevent apps that are running in the background from using a mobile
data connection.
→ Change cycle.
To change the monthly reset date for the monitoring period, tap

Limiting data usage

1	 On the Settings screen, tap Data usage and tap the Set mobile data limit switch to
activate it.

2	 Drag the limit adjustment bar upwards or downwards to set the limit.
3	 Drag the warning adjustment bar upwards or downwards to set a data usage alert level.
The device will alert you when the warning level is reached.

SIM card manager (dual SIM models)
Activate your SIM or USIM cards and customise the SIM card settings. Refer to Using dual SIM
or USIM cards (dual SIM models) for more information.
On the Settings screen, tap SIM card manager.
• 	Voice call: Select a SIM or USIM card for voice calls.
• 	Text messages: Select a SIM or USIM card for sending messages.
• 	Data service network: Select a SIM or USIM card for data service.
• 	Dual SIM always on: Set the device to allow incoming calls from the other SIM or USIM
card during a call.
When this feature is enabled, you may incur additional charges for call forwarding
depending on the region or service provider.

72

Settings

Mobile networks
Configure your mobile network settings.
On the Settings screen, tap Mobile networks.
• 	Data roaming: Set the device to use data connections when you are roaming.
• 	Access Point Names: Set up access point names (APNs).
• 	Network mode (single SIM models): Select a network type.
Network mode SIM 1 / Network mode SIM 2 (dual SIM models): Select a network type.
• 	Network operators: Search for available networks and manually register a network.

NFC and payment (NFC-enabled models)
Introduction
Your device allows you to read near field communication (NFC) tags that contain information
about products. You can also use this feature to make payments and buy tickets for
transportation or events after downloading the required apps.
The battery contains a built-in NFC antenna. Handle the battery carefully to avoid
damaging the NFC antenna.

73

Settings

Using the NFC feature
Use the NFC feature to send images or contacts to other devices, and read product
information from NFC tags.

1	 On the Settings screen, tap NFC and payment, and then tap the switch to activate it.
2	 Place the NFC antenna area on the back of your device near an NFC tag.
The information from the tag appears.

Ensure that the device’s screen is unlocked. Otherwise, the device will not read NFC
tags or receive data.

Making payments with the NFC feature
Before you can use the NFC feature to make payments, you must register for the mobile
payment service. To register or get more information about the service, contact your service
provider.

1	 On the Settings screen, tap NFC and payment, and then tap the switch to activate it.
2	 Touch the NFC antenna area on the back of your device to the NFC card reader.
To set the default payment app, open the settings screen and tap NFC and payment → Tap
& Pay, and then select an app.
The payment services list may not include all available payment apps.

74

Settings

Sending data
Allow data exchange when your device’s NFC antenna touches the other device’s NFC
antenna.

1	 On the Settings screen, tap NFC and payment, and then tap the switch to activate it.
2	 Tap Android Beam and tap the switch to activate it.
3	 Select an item and touch the other device’s NFC antenna to your device’s NFC antenna.
4	 When Touch to beam. appears on the screen, tap your device’s screen to send the item.
If both devices try to send data simultaneously, the file transfer may fail.

75

Settings

More connection settings
Options
Customise settings to control other features.
On the Settings screen, tap More connection settings.
• 	Printing: Configure settings for printer plug-ins installed on the device. You can search
for available printers or add one manually to print files. Refer to Printing for more
information.
• 	VPN: Set up and connect to virtual private networks (VPNs).
• 	Default messaging app: Select the default app to use for messaging.

Printing
Configure settings for printer plug-ins installed on the device. You can connect the device to a
printer via Wi-Fi or Wi-Fi Direct, and print images or documents.
Some printers may not be compatible with the device.

Adding printer plug-ins
Add printer plug-ins for printers you want to connect the device to.

1	 On the Settings screen, tap More connection settings → Printing → Download plug-in.
2	 Search for a printer plug-in in Play Store.
3	 Select a printer plug-in and install it.
4	 Select the printer plug-in and tap the switch to activate it.
The device searches for printers that are connected to the same Wi-Fi network as your
device.
To add printers manually, tap MORE → Add printer → ADD PRINTER.
To change print settings, tap MORE → Printing settings.

76

Settings

Printing content
While viewing content, such as images or documents, tap Share → Print →
printers, and then select a printer.

→ All

Sounds and notifications
Change settings for various sounds on the device.
On the Settings screen, tap Sounds and notifications.
• 	Sound mode: Set the device to use sound mode or silent mode.
• 	Volume: Adjust the volume level for call ringtones, music and videos, system sounds, and
notifications.
• 	Ringtones and sounds: Change the ringtone and system sound settings.
• 	Vibrations: Change the vibration settings.
• 	Sound quality and effects: Configure additional sound settings.
• 	Do not disturb: Set the device to mute incoming call and notification sounds, except for
allowed exceptions.
• 	Notifications on lock screen: Set whether or not to show the content of notifications on
the locked screen.
• 	App notifications: Change the notification settings for each app.

Display
Change the display settings.
On the Settings screen, tap Display.
• 	Brightness: Adjust the brightness of the display.
• 	Outdoor mode: Activate outdoor mode to make the display easier to see in bright
conditions.
• 	Font: Change the font size and type.
• 	Screen timeout: Set the length of time the device waits before turning off the display’s
backlight.
• 	Screen mode: Change the screen mode to adjust the display’s colour and contrast.
• 	Daydream: Set the device to launch a screensaver when the device is charging.

77

Settings

Applications
Manage the device’s apps and change their settings.
On the Settings screen, tap Applications.
• 	Application manager: View and manage the apps on your device.
• 	Default applications: Select a default setting for using apps.

Wallpaper
Change the wallpaper settings for the Home screen and the locked screen.
On the Settings screen, tap Wallpaper.

Themes
Apply various themes to the device to change the visual elements of the Home screen, locked
screen, and icons.
On the Settings screen, tap Themes.
To download more themes, tap THEME STORE.

Lock screen and security
Change the settings for securing the device and the SIM or USIM card.
On the Settings screen, tap Lock screen and security.
The available options may vary depending on the screen lock method selected.
• 	Screen lock type: Change the screen lock method.
• 	Show information: Change settings for the items displayed on the locked screen.
• 	Unlock effect: Select an effect that you see when you unlock the screen.
• 	Find My Mobile: Activate or deactivate the Find My Mobile feature. Access the Find my
mobile website (findmymobile.samsung.com) to track and control your lost or stolen
device.

78

Settings
• 	Unknown sources: Set the device to allow the installation of apps from unknown
sources.
• 	Other security settings: Configure additional security settings.

Privacy
Change the settings for maintaining your privacy.
On the Settings screen, tap Privacy.
• 	Location: Change settings for location information permissions.
• 	Report diagnostic info: Set the device to automatically send the device’s diagnostic and
usage information to Samsung.

Easy mode
Easy mode provides an easier user experience by using a simpler layout and bigger icons on
the Home screen.

Switching to easy mode

1	 On the Settings screen, tap Easy mode → Easy mode.
2	 Select apps under Easy applications to apply a simpler layout.
3	 Tap DONE.
Returning to standard mode
Swipe to the left on the Home screen and tap Settings → Easy mode → Standard mode →
DONE.

79

Settings

Managing shortcuts
To add a shortcut to an app to the Home screen, swipe to the left, tap
app.

, and then select an

To add a shortcut to a contact on the Home screen, swipe to the right and tap

.

To delete a shortcut from the Home screen, tap EDIT and select an app or contact with

.

Accessibility
Configure various settings to improve accessibility to the device.
On the Settings screen, tap Accessibility.
• 	Vision: Customise the settings to improve accessibility for visually impaired users.
• 	Hearing: Customise the settings to improve accessibility for users with hearing
impairment.
• 	Dexterity and interaction: Customise the settings to improve accessibility for users who
have reduced dexterity.
• 	Direct access: Set the device to open selected accessibility menus when you press the
Home key three times quickly.
• 	Notification reminder: Set the device to alert you to notifications that you have not
checked at the interval.
• 	Answering and ending calls: Change the method of answering or ending calls.
• 	Single tap mode: Set the device to control incoming calls or notifications by tapping the
button instead of dragging it.
• 	Services: View accessibility services installed on the device.

80

Settings

Accounts
Add your Samsung and Google accounts, or other accounts, to sync with.

Adding accounts
Some apps used on your device require a registered account. Create accounts to have the
best experience with your device.

1	 On the Settings screen, tap Accounts → Add account.
2	 Select an account service.
3	 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the account setup.
To sync content with your accounts, select an account and select items to sync.

Registering Samsung accounts
You need a Samsung account when using some Samsung apps. You can back up or restore
data saved in the device to your Samsung account. Register your Samsung account to the
device to conveniently use Samsung services.

1	 On the Settings screen, tap Accounts → Add account.
2	 Tap Samsung account.
3	 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the account setup.
Once your Samsung account has been registered, you can use apps requiring your Samsung
account without the sign in procedure.

Removing accounts
On the Settings screen, tap Accounts, select an account name, select the account to remove,
and then tap MORE → Remove account.

81

Settings

Backup and reset
Change the settings for managing settings and data.
On the Settings screen, tap Backup and reset.
• 	Backup account: Set up or edit your Google backup account.
• 	Back up my data: Set the device to back up settings and app data to the Google server.
• 	Automatic restore: Set the device to automatically restore settings and app data from
the Google server when apps are reinstalled.
• 	Reset settings: Return the device’s settings to the factory default settings without
deleting data.
• 	Factory data reset: Reset settings to the factory default values and delete all data.

Language and input
Change the settings for text input. Some options may not be available depending on the
selected language.
On the Settings screen, tap Language and input.
• 	Language: Select a display language for all menus and apps.
• 	Default keyboard: Select a default keyboard type for text input.
• 	Samsung keyboard: Change the Samsung keyboard settings.
• 	Google voice typing: Change the voice input settings.
• 	Voice input: Select a default voice input service. You can also change settings for each
service.
• 	Text-to-speech options: Change the text-to-speech settings.
• 	Pointer speed: Adjust the pointer speed for the mouse or trackpad connected to your
device.

82

Settings

Battery
View battery power information and change power saving options.
On the Settings screen, tap Battery.
The usage time left shows the time remaining before the battery power runs
out. Usage time left may vary depending on your device settings and operating
conditions.
• 	BATTERY USAGE: View the amount of battery power consumed by your device.
• 	Power saving mode: Activate power-saving mode and change the settings for powersaving mode. Refer to Power saving mode for more information.
• 	Ultra power saving mode: Extend standby time and reduce battery consumption by
displaying a simpler layout and allowing limited access to an app. Refer to Ultra power
saving mode for more information.
• 	Show power on status bar: Set the device to display the remaining battery life.

Storage
View memory information for your device.
On the Settings screen, tap Storage.
The actual available capacity of the internal memory is less than the specified
capacity because the operating system and default apps occupy part of the memory.
The available capacity may change when you update the device.

83

Settings

Date and time
Access and alter the following settings to control how the device displays the time and date.
On the Settings screen, tap Date and time.
If the battery remains fully discharged or removed from the device, the time and date
is reset.
• 	Automatic date and time: Automatically update the time and date when moving across
time zones.
• 	Automatic time zone: Set the device to receive time zone information from the network
when you move across time zones.
• 	Set date: Set the current date manually.
• 	Set time: Set the current time manually.
• 	Select time zone: Set the home time zone.
• 	Use 24-hour format: Display time in 24-hour format.

User manual
View help information to learn how to use the device and apps or configure important
settings.
On the Settings screen, tap User manual.

About device
Access device information, edit the device name, or update device software.
On the Settings screen, tap About device.

84

Appendix
Troubleshooting
Before contacting a Samsung Service Centre, please attempt the following solutions. Some
situations may not apply to your device.

When you turn on your device or while you are using the device, it
prompts you to enter one of the following codes:
• 	Password: When the device lock feature is enabled, you must enter the password you set
for the device.
• 	PIN: When using the device for the first time or when the PIN requirement is enabled, you
must enter the PIN supplied with the SIM or USIM card. You can disable this feature by
using the Lock SIM card menu.
• 	PUK: Your SIM or USIM card is blocked, usually as a result of entering your PIN incorrectly
several times. You must enter the PUK supplied by your service provider.
• 	PIN2: When you access a menu requiring the PIN2, you must enter the PIN2 supplied with
the SIM or USIM card. For more information, contact your service provider.

Your device displays network or service error messages
• 	When you are in areas with weak signals or poor reception, you may lose reception. Move
to another area and try again. While moving, error messages may appear repeatedly.
• 	You cannot access some options without a subscription. For more information, contact
your service provider.

Your device does not turn on
• 	When the battery is completely discharged, your device will not turn on. Fully charge the
battery before turning on the device.
• 	The battery may not be inserted properly. Insert the battery again.
• 	Wipe both gold-coloured contacts and insert the battery again.

85

Appendix

The touchscreen responds slowly or improperly
• 	If you attach a screen protector or optional accessories to the touchscreen, the
touchscreen may not function properly.
• 	If you are wearing gloves, if your hands are not clean while touching the touchscreen,
or if you tap the screen with sharp objects or your fingertips, the touchscreen may
malfunction.
• 	The touchscreen may malfunction in humid conditions or when exposed to water.
• 	Restart your device to clear any temporary software bugs.
• 	Ensure that your device software is updated to the latest version.
• 	If the touchscreen is scratched or damaged, visit a Samsung Service Centre.

Your device freezes or encounters a fatal error
Try the following solutions. If the problem is still not resolved, contact a Samsung Service
Centre.

Restarting the device
If your device freezes or hangs, you may need to close apps or turn off the device and turn it
on again.

Forcing restart
If your device is frozen and unresponsive, press and hold the Power key and the Volume
Down key simultaneously for more than 7 seconds to restart it.

Resetting the device
If the methods above do not solve your problem, perform a factory data reset.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Backup and reset → Factory data reset → RESET
DEVICE → ERASE EVERYTHING. Before performing the factory data reset, remember to
make backup copies of all important data stored in the device.

86

Appendix

Calls are not connected
• 	Ensure that you have accessed the right cellular network.
• 	Ensure that you have not set call barring for the phone number you are dialling.
• 	Ensure that you have not set call barring for the incoming phone number.

Others cannot hear you speaking on a call
• 	Ensure that you are not covering the built-in microphone.
• 	Ensure that the microphone is close to your mouth.
• 	If using a headset, ensure that it is properly connected.

Sound echoes during a call
Adjust the volume by pressing the Volume key or move to another area.

A cellular network or the Internet is often disconnected or audio
quality is poor
• 	Ensure that you are not blocking the device’s internal antenna.
• 	When you are in areas with weak signals or poor reception, you may lose reception. You
may have connectivity problems due to issues with the service provider’s base station.
Move to another area and try again.
• 	When using the device while moving, wireless network services may be disabled due to
issues with the service provider’s network.

The battery icon is empty
Your battery is low. Charge the battery.

The battery does not charge properly (For Samsung-approved
chargers)
• 	Ensure that the charger is connected properly.
• 	If the battery terminals are dirty, the battery may not charge properly or the device may
turn off. Wipe both gold-coloured contacts and try charging the battery again.

87

Appendix

The battery depletes faster than when first purchased
• 	When you expose the device or the battery to very cold or very hot temperatures, the
useful charge may be reduced.
• 	Battery consumption increases when you use messaging features or some apps, such as
games or the Internet.
• 	The battery is consumable and the useful charge will get shorter over time.

Your device is hot to the touch
When you use apps that require more power or use apps on your device for an extended
period of time, your device may feel hot to the touch. This is normal and should not affect
your device’s lifespan or performance. If the device overheats or feels hot for a prolonged
period, do not use it for a while. If the device continues to overheat, contact a Samsung
Service Centre.

Error messages appear when launching the camera
Your device must have sufficient available memory and battery power to operate the camera
app. If you receive error messages when launching the camera, try the following:
• 	Charge the battery.
• 	Free some memory by transferring files to a computer or deleting files from your device.
• 	Restart the device. If you are still having trouble with the camera app after trying these
tips, contact a Samsung Service Centre.

Photo quality is poorer than the preview
• 	The quality of your photos may vary, depending on the surroundings and the
photography techniques you use.
• 	If you take photos in dark areas, at night, or indoors, image noise may occur or images
may be out of focus.

88

Appendix

Error messages appear when opening multimedia files
If you receive error messages or multimedia files do not play when you open them on your
device, try the following:
• 	Free some memory by transferring files to a computer or deleting files from your device.
• 	Ensure that the music file is not Digital Rights Management (DRM)-protected. If the file is
DRM-protected, ensure that you have the appropriate licence or key to play the file.
• 	Ensure that the file formats are supported by the device. If a file format is not supported,
such as DivX or AC3, install an app that supports it. To confirm the file formats that your
device supports, visit www.samsung.com.
• 	Your device supports photos and videos captured with the device. Photos and videos
captured by other devices may not work properly.
• 	Your device supports multimedia files that are authorised by your network service
provider or providers of additional services. Some content circulated on the Internet,
such as ringtones, videos, or wallpapers, may not work properly.

Another Bluetooth device is not located
• 	Ensure that the Bluetooth wireless feature is activated on your device.
• 	Ensure that the Bluetooth wireless feature is activated on the device you wish to connect
to.
• 	Ensure that your device and the other Bluetooth device are within the maximum
Bluetooth range (10 m).
If the tips above do not solve the problem, contact a Samsung Service Centre.

A connection is not established when you connect the device to a
computer
• 	Ensure that the USB cable you are using is compatible with your device.
• 	Ensure that you have the proper driver installed and updated on your computer.
• 	If you are a Windows XP user, ensure that you have Windows XP Service Pack 3 or higher
installed on your computer.

89

Appendix

Your device cannot find your current location
GPS signals may be obstructed in some locations, such as indoors. Set the device to use Wi-Fi
or a mobile network to find your current location in these situations.

Data stored in the device has been lost
Always make backup copies of all important data stored in the device. Otherwise, you cannot
restore data if it is corrupted or lost. Samsung is not responsible for the loss of data stored in
the device.

A small gap appears around the outside of the device case
• 	This gap is a necessary manufacturing feature and some minor rocking or vibration of
parts may occur.
• 	Over time, friction between parts may cause this gap to expand slightly.

90

Copyright
Copyright © 2016 Samsung Electronics
This manual is protected under international copyright laws.
No part of this manual may be reproduced, distributed, translated, or transmitted in any form
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or storing
in any information storage and retrieval system, without the prior written permission of
Samsung Electronics.

Trademarks
• 	SAMSUNG and the SAMSUNG logo are registered trademarks of Samsung Electronics.
• 	Bluetooth® is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG, Inc. worldwide.

• 	Wi-Fi®, Wi-Fi Protected Setup™, Wi-Fi Direct™, Wi-Fi CERTIFIED™, and the Wi-Fi logo are
registered trademarks of the Wi-Fi Alliance.

• 	All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners.