@ LG

Life's Good

User Guide

46 LTE" ready

ENGLISH

* Please check With your network operator if 46 LTE is available on your SIM

- Screen displays and illustrations may differ from
those you see on actual phone.

- Some of the contents of this guide may not apply
to your phone, depending on the software and your
service provider. All information in this document is
subject to change without notice.

- This handset is not suitable for people who have a
visual impairment due to the tap screen keyboard.

- Copyright @2016 LG Electronics, lnc.All rights
reserved. LG and the LG logo are registered
trademarks of LG Group and its related entities. All
other trademarks are the property of their respective
owners.

- GoogleTM, Google MapsTM, GmailTM, YouTubeTM,
HangoutsTM and Play StoreTM are trademarks of
Google, Inc.

 

 

 

 

 

M

Table of contents

Guidelines for safe and efficient use ....... 5
Important notice ..................................... 16

Getting to know your phone
Phone overview.
Installing the SIM card and battery.
Charging your phone ......
Using the memory card...
Locking and unlocking the scree

Knock Code.
KnockON..
Stereo headset With microphone.

    
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

Your Home screen....
Touch screen tips
Home screen ..........

Extended home screen
Customizing the Home screen”
Returning to recently- used applications
Notifications panel ......................
Opening the notifications panel.
indicator icons on the Status Bar
On-screen keyboard ...........
Entering accented letters...

 

 

  
 
 

Google account setup ............................. 38

Connecting to Networks and Devices....
Wi-Fi ..
Connec Ing o i- Ine or 5
Turning Wi-Fi on and connecting to
aWi-Fi network...

 
    

 

Bluetooth ............................................... 40
Sharing your phone's data connection ...41
Wi-Fi Direct .........
Using SmartShare ..
PC connections with a USB cable ........... 45

Calls ...............

Making a call
Calling your contacts ...............
Answering and rejecting a call.
Adjusting the in-call volume .....
Making a second call
Viewing your call logs ..
Call settings .................

 

   
 
 
 

Contacts .................................................. 49
Searching for a contact...
Adding a new contact ......
Favourites contacts.
Creating a group ......

 

Messaging ............................................... 51

Sending a message.
Threaded box .........
Changing your message settings.

  

E-mail ...................................................... 53
Managing an email account .....
Working with account folders... ..
Composing and sending email ............... 54

 

Camera and Wdeo .........................
To open the Camera application.

 
 

Getting to know the viewfinder .............. 55
Take Pictures.
Record Videos

Camera and Video Settings.

Multi-point Auto Focus.

Dual ............

Gesture shot

Super Zooming...

View Your Pictures

Gallery Options...

Assign Pictures

Video Options.

Live Zoom
Dual Play
Gallery...

Working with photos

To share a video ..

To delete a video.

OSlide while playing videos.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 

 

  
  
 

Function ..
Capture+
Using the Capture+ options.
Viewing the saved Capture+
QSlide ........
QuickRemote.
Smart Keyboard ........................
Move cursor using space bar...
Enter suggested word using gesture
control ........
LG SmartWorld ..

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

How to Get to LG SmartWorld from Your

 

Phone ................................................. 72

Multimedia
Music .....

Add music files to your phone ............... 73

Transfer music using Media device

(MTP) .................................................. 73

Playing a song ..................................... 73
Utilities .................

 

 

Setting your alarm ..
Using your calculator ..................
Adding an event to your calendar
Voice Recorder ...........................

Recording a sound orvoice

Sending the voice recording.
Tasks ..................................
Google+ .........
Voice Search
Downloads .....

   
 
 
 
   

The Web .................................................. 78

Internet .......................
Using the Web toolba
Viewing webpages
Opening a page...
Searching the web by voic
Bookmarks...
History .........
Using Popup Browser

Chrome ................................................. 80

 
 
  
  

3

Viewing webpages ............................... 80
Opening a page ................ ...80
Syncing with other devices ...80

 

 

  

 

Settings ................................................... 81
Networks ................ ...81
Sound & notification 84
Display ....................... ...85
General .................................................. 88

PC software (LG PC Suite) ...................... 95

Phone software update .......................... 98
Phone software update .......................... 98

About this user guide ..

About this user guide.
Trademarks

 
  
 

DivX HD ......

Dolby Digital Plus
Accessories ........................................... 102
Troubleshooting .................................... 103
FAQ ........................................................ 107

b I

Guidelines for safe and efficient use

Please read these simple guidelines. Not following these guidelines may be dangerous
or illegal. Should a fault occur, a software tool is built into your device that will gather
a fault log. This tool gathers only data specific to the fault, such as signal strength, cell
ID position in sudden call drop and applications loaded. The log is used only to help
determine the cause of the fault. These logs are encrypted and can only be accessed
by an authorised LG Repair centre should you need to return your device for repair.

Exposure to radio frequency energy

Radio wave exposure and Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) information.

This mobile phone model LG-D855 has been designed to comply with applicable safety

requirements for exposure to radio waves. These requirements are based on scientific

guidelines that include safety margins designed to assure the safety of all persons,
regardless of age and health.

- The radio wave exposure guidelines employ a unit of measurement known as the
Specific Absorption Rate (SAR). Tests for SAR are conducted using standardised
methods with the phone transmitting at its highest certified power level in all used
frequency bands.

- While there may be differences between the SAR levels of various LG phone models,
they are all designed to meet the relevant guidelines for exposure to radio waves.

- The SAR limit recommended by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing
Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) is 2 W/kg averaged over 10g of tissue.

- The highest SAR value for this model phone tested for use at the ear is 0.291 W/kg
(10g) and when worn on the body is 0.269 W/Kg (10 g).

m I

- This device meets RF exposure guidelines when used either in the normal use
position against the ear or when positioned at least 1.5 cm away from the body.
When a carry case, belt clip or holder is used for body-worn operation, it should not
contain metal and should position the product at least 1.5 cm away from your body.
In order to transmit data files or messages, this device requires a quality connection
to the network. In some cases, transmission of data files or messages may be
delayed until such a connection is available. Ensure the above separation distance
instructions are followed until the transmission is completed.

Product care and maintenance

A WARNING

Only use batteries, chargers and accessories approved for use with this
particular phone model. The use of any other types may invalidate any
approval or warranty applying to the phone and may be dangerous.

- Do not disassemble this unit. Take it to a qualified service technician when repair

work is required.

- Repairs under warranty, at LG's discretion, may include replacement parts or boards

that are either new or reconditioned, provided that they have functionality equal to
that of the parts being replaced.

- Keep away from electrical appliances such as TVs, radios and personal computers.
- The unit should be kept away from heat sources such as radiators or cookers.
- Do not drop.

- Do not subject this unit to mechanical vibration or shock.

- Switch off the phone in any area where you are required to by special regulations.

a I

For example, do not use your phone in hospitals as it may affect sensitive medical
equipment.

- Do not handle the phone with wet hands while it is being charged. It may cause an
electric shock and can seriously damage your phone.

- Do not charge a handset near flammable material as the handset can become hot
and create a fire hazard.

- Use a dry cloth to clean the exterior of the unit (do not use solvents such as benzene,
thinner or alcohol).

- Do not charge the phone when it is on soft furnishings.

- The phone should be charged in a well ventilated area.

- Do not subject this unit to excessive smoke or dust.

- Do not keep the phone next to credit cards or transport tickets; it can affect the
information on the magnetic strips.

- Do not tap the screen with a sharp object as it may damage the phone.

- Do not expose the phone to liquid or moisture.

- Use accessories like earphones cautiously. Do not touch the antenna unnecessarily.

- Do not use, touch or attempt to remove or fix broken, chipped or cracked glass.
Damage to the glass display due to abuse or misuse is not covered under the
warranty.

- Your phone is an electronic device that generates heat during normal operation.
Extremely prolonged, direct skin contact in the absence of adequate ventilation may
result in discomfort or minor burns. Therefore, use care when handling your phone
during or immediately after operation.

- If your phone gets wet, immediately unplug it to dry off completely. Do not attempt
to accelerate the drying process with an external heating source, such as an oven,
microwave or hair dryer.

- The liquid in your wet phone, changes the color of the product label inside your
phone. Damage to your device as a result of exposure to liquid is not covered under
your warranty.

\I I

Efficient phone operation

Electronics devices

All mobile phones may receive interference, which could affect performance.

- Do not use your mobile phone near medical equipment without requesting
permission. Avoid placing the phone over pacemakers, for example, in your breast
pocket.

- Some hearing aids might be disturbed by mobile phones.

- Minor interference may affect TVs, radios, PCs etc.

- Use your phone in temperatures between 0°C and 40°C, if possible. Exposing your
phone to extremely low or high temperatures may result in damage, malfunction, or
even explosion.

Road safety

Check the laws and regulations on the use of mobile phones in the area when you

drive.

- Do not use a hand-held phone while driving.

- Give full attention to driving.

- Pull off the road and park before making or answering a call if driving conditions so
require.

- RF energy may affect some electronic systems in your vehicle such as car stereos
and safety equipment.

- When your vehicle is equipped with an air bag, do not obstruct with installed or
portable wireless equipment. It can cause the air bag to fail or cause serious injury
due to improper performance.

- If you are listening to music whilst out and about, please ensure that the volume is
at a reasonable level so that you are aware of your surroundings. This is of particular
importance when near roads.

00 I

Avoid damage to your hearing

To prevent possible hearing damage, do not listen at high volume
levels for long periods.

Damage to your hearing can occur if you are exposed to loud sound for long periods of

time. We therefore recommend that you do not turn on or off the handset close to your

ear. We also recommend that music and call volumes are set to a reasonable level.

- When using headphones, turn the volume down if you cannot hear the people
speaking near you, or if the person sitting next to you can hear what you are listening
to.

NOTE: Excessive sound pressure from earphones and headphones can
cause hearing loss

Glass Parts

Some parts of your mobile device are made of glass. This glass could break if your
mobile device is dropped on a hard surface or receives a substantial impact. If the glass
breaks, do not touch or attempt to remove it. Stop using your mobile device until the
glass is replaced by an authorised service provider.

Blasting area

Do not use the phone where blasting is in progress. Observe restrictions and follow any
regulations or rules.

CO I

Potentially explosive atmospheres

- Do not use your phone at a refueling point.

- Do not use near fuel or chemicals.

- Do not transport or store flammable gas, liquid or explosives in the same
compartment of your vehicle as your mobile phone or accessories.

In aircraft

Wireless devices can cause interference in aircraft.
- Turn your mobile phone off before boarding any aircraft.
- Do not use it on the ground without permission from the crew.

Children

Keep the phone in a safe place out of the reach of small children. It includes small parts
which may cause a choking hazard if detached.

Emergency calls

Emergency calls may not be available on all mobile networks. Therefore you should
never depend solely on your phone for emergency calls. Check with your local service
provider.

Battery information and care

- You do not need to completely discharge the battery before recharging. Unlike other
battery systems, there is no memory effect that could compromise the battery's
performance.

- Use only LG batteries and chargers. LG chargers are designed to maximize the
battery life.

- Do not disassemble or short-circuit the battery.

- Keep the metal contacts of the battery clean.

- Replace the battery when it no longer provides acceptable performance. The battery
pack may be recharged hundreds of times before it needs replacing.

- Recharge the battery if it has not been used for a long time to maximize usability.

- Do not expose the battery charger to direct sunlight or use it in high humidity, such as
in the bathroom.

- Do not leave the battery in hot or cold places, as this may deteriorate battery
performance.

- Risk of explosion if battery is replaced by an incorrect type. Dispose of used batteries
according to the instructions.

- If you need to replace the battery, take it to the nearest authorised LG Electronics
service point or dealer for assistance.

- Always unplug the charger from the wall socket after the phone is fully charged to
save unnecessary power consumption of the charger.

- Actual battery life will depend on network configuration, product settings, usage
patterns, battery and environmental conditions.

- Make sure that no sharp-edged items such as animal's teeth or nails, come into
contact with the battery. This could cause a fire.

Anti-Theft Guide

You can set up your device to prevent other people from using it if it‘s been reset to
factory settings without your permission. For example, if your device is lost, stolen, or
wiped, only someone with your Google account or screen lock information can use the
device.

All you need to make sure your device is protected is:

- Set a screen lock: If your device is lost or stolen but you have a screen lock
set, the device can‘t be erased using the Settings menu unless your screen is
unlocked.

- Add your Google account on your device: If your device is wiped but you have
your Google account on it, the device can‘t finish the setup process until your
Google account information is entered again.

After your device is protected, you‘ll need to either unlock your screen or enter your
Google account password if you need to do a factory reset. This ensures that you or
someone you trust is doing the reset.

NOTE:

- Do not forget your Google account and password you had added to your
device prior to performing a factory reset. If you can't provide the account
information during the setup process, you won't be able to use the device
at all after performing the factory reset.

Laser safety statement

Caution!

This product employs a laser system. To ensure proper use of this product, please read
this owner‘s manual carefully and retain for future reference. Should the unit require
maintenance, contact an authorised service centre.

Use of controls, adjustments, or the performance of procedures other than those
specified herein may result in hazardous radiation exposure.

To prevent direct exposure to laser beam, do not try to open the enclosure or make
direct contact with the laser.

LASER PRODUCT
LASER FRODUKT
LASER LAITE

LASER APPARAT
PRODUIT LASER

 

Instructions for Wireless Charger

Be sure to use a wireless charger that is genuine or compatibilityecertified (by
WPC Qi standards).

(Wireless charger is sold separately.)

DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY

Hereby, LG Electronics declares that this LG-D855 product is in compliance
with the essential requirements and other relevant provisions of Directive
1999/5/EC. A copy of the Declaration of Conformity can be found at
http://www.Ig.com/globa|/declaration

Contact office for compliance of this product :
LG Electronics European Shared Service Center B.\/.
Krijgsman 1, 1186 DM Amstelveen, The Netherlands

E

E

Disposal of your old appliance

1 All electrical and electronic products should be disposed of separately from
the municipal waste stream via designated collection facilities appointed by
the government or the local authorities.

2 The correct disposal of your old appliance will help prevent potential
negative consequences for the environment and human health.

3 For more detailed information about disposal of your old appliance, please
contact your city office, waste disposal service or the shop where you
purchased the product.

Disposal of waste batteries/accumulators

1 This symbol may be combined with chemical symbols for mercury (Hg), cadmium
(Cd) or lead (Pb) if the battery contains more than 0.0005% of mercury, 0.002%
of cadmium or 0.004% of lead.

2 All batteries/accumulators should be disposed separately from the municipal
waste stream via designated collection facilities appointed by the government or
the local authorities.

3 The correct disposal of your old batteries/accumulators will help to prevent
potential negative consequences forthe environment, animal and human health.

4 For more detailed information about disposal of your old batteries/ accumulators,
please contact your city office, waste disposal service or the shop where you
purchased the product.

Important notice

Please read this before you start using your phone!
Please check to see whether any problems you encountered with your phone are
described in this section before taking the phone in for service or calling a service
representative.

1. Phone memory

When there is less than 10% of space available in your phone memory, your phone
cannot receive new messages. You need to check your phone memory and delete some
data, such as applications or messages, to make more memory available.

To uninstall applications:

1 Tap O > G > Apps tab > El Settings > General tab > Apps.

2 Once all applications appear, scroll to and select the application you want to
uninstall.

3 Tap Uninstall.

2. Optimizing battery life

Extend your battery‘s power by turning off features that you don‘t have to run constantly

in the background. You can monitor how applications and system resources consume

battery power.

Extending your phone's battery life:

- Turn off radio communications when you are not using. If you are not using Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth® or GPS, turn them off.

- Reduce screen brightness and set a shorter screen timeout.

- Turn off automatic syncing for Gmail, Calendar, Contacts and other applications.

- Some applications you have downloaded may reduce battery power.

- While using downloaded applications, check the battery charge level.

NOTE: If you accidently press the Power/Lock Key while the device is in your
pocket, the screen will turn off automatically in order to save battery power.

To check the battery power level:

 

- Tap O > --‘_ > Apps tab > m Settings > General tab > About phone > Battery.

The battery status (charging or discharging) and battery level (percentage charged) is

displayed at the top of the screen.

To monitor and control how battery power is being used:

- Tap O > ‘, > Apps tab > m Settings > General tab > About phone > Battery
> Battery usage.

Battery usage time is displayed on the screen. It tells you how long it has been since

you last connected your phone to a power source or, if currently connected, how long

the phone was last running on battery power. The screen shows the applications or

services using battery power, listed in order from the greatest to smallest amount used.

 

3. Before installing an open source application and OS

A WARNING

If you install and use an 08 other than the one provided by the manufacturer
it may cause your phone to malfunction. In addition, your phone will no longer
be covered by the warranty.

A WARNING

To protect your phone and personal data, only download applications from
trusted sources, such as Play StoreTM. If there are improperly installed
applications on your phone, the phone may not work normally or a serious
error may occur. You must uninstall those applications and all associated data
and settings from the phone.

4. Using an unlock pattern

Set an unlock pattern to secure your phone. Tap O > 7 > Apps tab > ;-,3 Settings
> Display tab > Lock screen > Select screen lock > Pattern. This opens a screen
that will guide you through how to draw a screen unlock pattern. You have to create a
Backup PIN as a safety measure in case you forget your unlock pattern.

Caution: Create a Google account before setting an unlock pattern and
remember the Backup PIN you created when creating your pattern look.

A WARNING

Precautions to take when using pattern lock.

It is very important to remember the unlock pattern you set. You will not be
able to access your phone if you use an incorrect pattern 5 times. You have 5
opportunities to enter your unlock pattern, PIN or password. If you have used
all 5 opportunities, you can try again after 30 seconds.

When you can’t recall your unlock Pattern, PIN or Password:

< If you have forgotten your pattern >

If you logged in to your Google account on the phone but failed to enter the correct
pattern 5 times, tap the Forgot pattern? button at the bottom of the screen. You are
then required to log in with your Google Account or you have to enter the Backup PIN
which you entered when creating your Pattern Lock.

5. Opening and switching applications

Multi-tasking is easy with Android, you can keep more than one application running

at the same time. There is no need to quit an application before opening another one.

Use and switch between several open applications. Android manages each application,

stopping and starting them as needed to ensure that idle applications don‘t consume

resources unnecessarily.

1 Tap Recent Key El. A list of recently used applications will be displayed.

2 Tap the application you want to access. This does not stop the previous app
running in the background on the phone. Make sure to tap Back Key <1 to exit an
app after using it.

- To remove an app from the recent apps list, swipe the app preview to the left or right.

To clear all apps, tap Clear all.

6. Transferring music, photos and videos using Media
device (MTP)

1 Connect your device to a PC using the USB cable that came with your phone.
2 Open the Notifications panel and select Media device (MTP).
3 A window will pop-up on your PC, allowing you to transfer the desired data.

NOTE:
- The LG Android Platform Driver is required to be installed on your PC to be
able to detect the phone.

- Check the requirements for using Media device (MTP).

7. Hold your phone upright

Hold your cell phone vertically, as you would a regular phone. Your phone has an
internal antenna. Be careful not to scratch or damage the back of the phone, as this
may affect performance.

When making/receiving calls or sending/receiving data, avoid holding the lower part of
the phone where the antenna is located. Doing so may affect call quality.

8. Do not connect your phone when you power on/off
your PC

Make sure to disconnect your phone from the PC when powering your PC on or off as it
might result in PC errors.

9. Hardware key control mode

If your phone display is damaged or broken, you can answer an incoming call, or turn

off an alarm using the hardware keys.

1 Turn your phone off.

2 Press and hold the Power/Lock Key and the Volume Keys at the same time for
more than 6 seconds to enter the Hardware key control mode.

3 Press the Volume Keys to scroll to the desired option, then press the Power/Lock

Key to confirm.

- Answer call: Press the Volume Keys at the same time.

- Stop alarm: When an alarm rings, press and hold the Volume Up Key or Volume
Down Key to stop the alarm.

NOTE: If you use your phone with a broken display glass, your phone can
break even more or you can be injured. Make sure to visit the LG authorised
service centre to get your phone repaired.

Getting to know your phone

Phone overview

Notification LED
Front Camera Lens
Proximity Sensor

: —Earpiece

   
   
   
  
 
 

 

— Touch Screen

- — Back Key
- Returns to the previous screen. Also closes pop-up
items such as menus, dialog boxes, and the on-screen
keyboard. Touch and hold it to access Dual window.
— Horne Key
- Return to the Home screen from any screen.
— Recent Apps Key

- Displays recently used applications. If you touch and hold
this key, it opens available options menu.

 

NOTE: Proximity sensor

When receiving and making calls, the proximity sensor automatically turns the
backlight off by sensing when the phone is near your ear. This extends battery
life.

AWARNING

Placing a heavy object on the phone or sitting on it can damage the LCD
and touch screen functions. Do not cover the LCD proximity sensor with
protective film. This could cause the sensor to malfunction.

IR (Infrared) LED
5 Sub Microphone

 

 

 

 

 

Laser Detection — Rear Camera Lens

AutoFocus o u Flash

Power/Lock Key 0 Volume Keys (Whilst screen

- Switch your phone on/ is switched off)
off by pressing and - Long Press Up to launch
holding this key Capture+

- Short press to lock/ - Long Press Down to launch
unlock the screen Camera

NFC Touch Point —'

Speaker ¥

% Main Microphone

Charger/USB port
Headset Jack

 

A WARNING

- This part encloses the battery compartment.

- Be careful not to damage the NFC touch point on the phone, which is part
of the NFC antenna.

Installing the SIM card and battery

Before you can start exploring your new phone, you‘ll need to set it up.

1 To remove the back cover, hold the phone firmly in one hand. With your other hand,
lift off the back cover with your thumbnail as shown in figure below.

 

2 Slide the SIM card into the lower slot for the SIM card as shown in figure. Make
sure the gold contact area on the card is facing downwards.

 

3 Insert the battery into place by aligning the gold contacts on the phone and the
battery (1) and pressing it down until it clicks into place (2).

 

4 Align the back cover over the battery compartment (1) and press it down until it
clicks into place (2).

 

Charging your phone

Charge the battery before using it for the first time. Use the charger to charge the
battery. A computer can be also used to charge the device by connecting them via the
USB cable.

A WARNING

Use only LGeapproved chargers, batteries and cables. If you use unapproved
chargers, batteries or cables, it may cause battery charging delay or pop up
message regarding slow charging, or this can cause the battery to explode or
damage the device, which are not covered by the warranty.

The charger connector is at the bottom of the phone. Insert the charger and plug it into
an electrical outlet.

 

NOTE:
- The battery must be fully charged initially to improve battery lifetime.
- Do not open the back cover while your phone is charging.

Using the memory card

Your phone supports the use of microSDTM, microSDHCW or microSDXCW memory
cards of up to 2TB capacity. These memory cards are specifically designed for mobile
phones and other ultra-small devices and are ideal for storing media-rich files such as
music, programs, videos, and photographs for use with your phone.

To insert a memory card:

Insert the memory card into the upper slot for the memory card. Make sure the gold
contact area of Memory card is facing downwards.

To safely remove the memory card:

Touch d > Apps tab > El Settings > General tab > Storage & USB > SD card 9
tab.

 

NOTE:

- Use only compatible memory cards with your phone. Using incompatible
memory cards may damage the card and data stored on the card, as well
as the phone.

- It‘s important to unmount the memory card prior to removing it from the
phone to avoid damage to it or the data saved on the card.

To format the memory card:
Your memory card may already be formatted. If it isn‘t, you must format it before you
can use it.

NOTE: All files on your memory card are deleted when it is formatted.

1 Touch t 1 to open the application list.

2 Scroll and touch El Settings > General tab > Storage & USB.
3 Touch SD card.

4 Touch a option > Settings > Format.

NOTE: If there is content on your memory card, the folder structure may be
different after formatting, as all the files will have been deleted.

Locking and unlocking the screen

If you do not use the phone for a while, the screen will be automatically turned off and
locked. This helps to prevent accidental taps and saves battery power.

When you are not using the phone, press the Power/Lock key Q to lock your phone.
If there are any programs running when you lock your screen, they may be still running
in Lock mode. It is recommended that you exit all programs before entering Lock mode
to avoid unnecessary charges (eg. phone calls, web access and data communications).
To wake up your phone, press the Power/Lock key Q. The Lock screen will appear.
Touch and slide the Lock screen in any direction to unlock your Home screen. The last
screen you viewed will open.

Knock Code
The Knock Code feature allows you to tap the screen with your own Knock Code
pattern using the screen divided by 4 squares to easily turn the screen on or off. You
can disable this feature in the Lock screen settings.

NOTE:

- If you enter the wrong Knock Code 6 times, it will compulsorily take you to

your Google account log in/backup PIN.
- Use the fingertip instead of finger nail to tap the screen for turning it on or

off.
- When the Knock Code is not in use, you can use KnockON function by

tapping the screen.

1 From the Home screen, tap the (pi Apps Key > El Settings > Display tab.
2 Tap Lock screen > Select screen lock > Knock Code.
3 Tap the squares in a pattern to set your knock code.

 

Unlock the screen using the Knock Code
You can unlock the screen by tapping the Knock Code pattern you already set.

1 When the screen turns off, press the Power key.
2 Tap the Knock Code pattern you set before.

28

KnockON

You can lock or unlock the screen byjust double-tap.

Double-tap the centre screen quickly to unlock the screen. To lock the screen, double-
tap the status bar in any screen (except on the camera viewfinder) or empty area on the
Home screen.

NOTE: When turning the screen on, make sure you do not cover the
proximity sensor. Doing so will turn the screen off immediately after turning it
on in order to prevent abnormal turning on in your pocket or bag.

Stereo headset with microphone
With the headset connected, you can enjoy music or video with stereo sound, and
easily switch from your music/video to take and end calls.

< Front >
Volume Up/Down Buttons
-
IUEILBII
Call/End Button
- For an incoming call, press to receive or end a call.

- When you listen to music, press to stop playback or resume.
Press twice to play the next track.

< Back >

E Microphone

1 Plug in the headset as shown below.

Q

V
‘I—E/

i

=3

2 If a call is coming when the headset is connected to the phone, press the to
take the call.

3 To end the call, press the again.

Your Home screen

Touch screen tips

Here are some tips on how to navigate on your phone.

Tap or touch —A single finger tap selects items, links, shortcuts and letters on the
on-screen keyboard.

Touch and hold —Touch and hold an item on the screen by tapping it and not lifting
your finger until an action occurs. For example, to open a contact‘s available options,
touch and hold the contact in the Contacts list until the context menu opens.

Drag —Touch and hold an item for a moment and then, without lifting your finger, move
your finger on the screen until you reach the target position. You can drag items on the
Home screen to reposition them.

Swipe or slide —To swipe or slide, quickly move your finger across the surface of the
screen, without pausing when you first tap it (so you don't drag an item instead). For
example, you can slide the screen up or down to scroll through a list, or browse through
the different Home screens by swiping from left to right (and vice versa).

Double-tap — Double-tap to zoom on a webpage or a image. For example, quickly
double-tap a section of a webpage to adjust that section to fit the width of the screen.
You can also double-tap to zoom in and out while viewing the picture.

Pinch-to—Zoom — Use your index finger and thumb in a pinching or spreading motion
to zoom in or out when using the browser or Maps, orwhen browsing pictures.

Rotate the screen — From many applications and menus, the orientation of the screen
adjusts to the device‘s physical orientation.

NOTE:

- To select an item, tap the centre of the icon.

- Do not press too hard; the tap screen is sensitive enough to pick up a light,
yet firm tap.

- Use the tip of your finger to tap the option you want. Be careful not to tap
any other keys.

Your Home screen

Home screen

The Home screen is the starting point for many applications and functions, and it allows
you to add items like application shortcuts, or Google widgets to give you instant access
to information and applications. This is the default canvas and accessible from any
menu by tapping 0.

Status Bar

Shows phone‘s status information including the time,
signal strength, battery status, and notification icons.
Widget

Widgets are self-contained applications that can be
accessed through the Apps screen or on the Home
screen or an extended home screen. Unlike a shortcut,
the Widget appears as an on-screen application.
Application Icons

Tap an icon (application, folder, etc.) to open and use it.

Location Indicator

Indicates which Home screen canvas you are viewing.
Quick Key Area

Provides one-touch access to the function in any home
screen canvas.

Home touch buttons

 

Extended home screen
The operating system provides multiple Home screen canvases to provide more space
for adding icons, widgets, and more.

, Slide your finger left or right across the Home screen.

Customizing the Home screen

You can customize your Home screen by adding apps, widgets or changing wallpapers.
To add items on your Home screen

1 Touch and hold the empty part of the Home screen.

2 In the apps menu, select the item you wish to add. You will then see this added
item on the Home screen.

3 Drag it to the desired location and lift your finger.

TIP! To add an application icon to the Home screen from the Apps menu,
touch and hold the application you want to add.

To remove an item from the Home screen
, Home screen > touch and hold the icon you want to remove > drag it to E.
To add an app as a Quick key
, From the Apps menu or on the Home screen, touch and hold an application icon
and drag it to the Quick key area. Up to 7 apps can be added.
To remove an app from the Quick key area
, Touch and hold the desired quick key and drag it to E.

NOTE: E3 Apps key cannot be removed.

To customize apps icons on the Home screen

1 Touch and hold an application icon until it is unlocked from its current position.
Then drop it on the screen. The editing icon 0 will appear in the upper right
corner of the application.

2 Tap the application icon again and select the desired icon design and size.

3 Tap 0K to save the change.

Your Home screen

Returning to recently-used applications

1 Tap El. A list of recently used applications will be displayed.
2 Tap an icon to open the application. Or tap 4 to return to your previous screen.

Notifications panel

Notifications alert you the arrival of new messages, calendar events, and alarms, as
well as to ongoing events, such as when you are on a call.

When a notification arrives, its icon appears at the top of the screen. Icons for pending
notifications appear on the left, and system icons such as Wi-Fi or battery strength
shown on the right.

NOTE: The available options may vary depending on the region or service
provider.

Pending System
notifications notifications
I.

  

Opening the notifications panel
Swipe down from the status bar to open the notifications panel.

Quick Toggle Area

Tap each quick toggle key to turn it on/off. Touch
and hold the key to access the settings menu of the
function. To see more toggle keys, swipe left or right.
Tap E to remove, add, or rearrange toggle keys.

Notifications
The current notifications are listed, each with a brief
description. Tap a notification to view it.

 

To close the notifications panel, touch and drag the tab
toward the top of the screen.

Indicator icons on the Status Bar
Indicator icons appear on the status bar at the top of the screen to report missed calls,
new messages, calendar events, device status and more.

.igl’Q‘ 4; 3‘ whuizuu

 

Your Home screen

The icons displayed at the top of the screen provide information about the status of the
device. The icons listed in the table below are some of the most common ones.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Icon Description Icon Description
IE No SIM card inserted Ringer is silenced
I No network signal available In Vibrate mode is on
Airplane mode is on I] Battery fully charged
1: Connected to a Wi-Fi network a Battery is charging
Wired headset connected Eggngaiglgonnected to PC via
Call in progress E Downloading data
Missed call a Uploading data
I Bluetooth is on a GPS is on
NFC is on New Gmail message available
E System warning E 2% £3,115le gouts message
An alarm is set E Choose input method
E New voicemail available (ll/Itedia server content sharing

 

 

 

 

Icon Description Icon Description

 

 

El Newtext Wi-Fihotspotisactive

 

 

I: A song is currently playing

 

NOTE: The icons location in the status bar may differ according to the
function or service.

On-screen keyboard

You can enter text using the on-screen keyboard. The on-screen keyboard appears
automatically on the screen when you need to enter text. To manually display the
keyboard, simply tap a text field where you want to enter text.

Using the keypad & entering text

nTap once to capitalize the next letter you type. Double-tap for all caps.

mTap to switch to the numbers and symbols keyboard.

ﬁTap to access the keyboard settings. Touch and hold to access voice input mode,
handwriting mode or Clip Tray.

-Tap to enter a space.

CjTap to create a new line.

.Tap to delete the previous character.

Entering accented letters

When you select French or Spanish as the text entry language, you can enter special
French or Spanish characters (eg. "a").

For example, to input "a", touch and hold the "a" key until the zoom-in key grows
bigger and displays characters from different languages.

Then select the special character you want.

Google account setup

When you first turn on your phone, you have the opportunity to activate the network, to
sign into your Google Account and select how you want to use certain Google services.

To set up your Google account:

- Sign into a Google Account from the prompted set-up screen.
0R
- Tap O > E] > Apps tab > select a Google application, such as Gmail > GOT IT >
select Add an email address to create a new account or add your account.
Once you have set up your Google account on your phone, your phone automatically
synchronizes with your Google account on the Web.
Your contacts, Gmail messages, Calendar events and other information from these
applications and services on the Web are synchronized with your phone. (T his will
depend on your synchronization settings.)
After signing in, you can use GmailTM and take advantage of Google services on your
phone.

Connecting to Networks and Devices
Wi-Fi

With Wi-Fi, you can use high-speed Internet access within the coverage of the wireless
access point (AP). Enjoy wireless Internet using Wi-Fi, without extra charges.

Connecting to Wi-Fi networks

To use Wi-Fi on your phone, you need to access a wireless access point or ’hotspot'.
Some access points are open and you can simply connect to them. Others are hidden
or use security features; you must configure your phone to be able to connect to them.
Turn off Wi-Fi when you‘re not using it to extend the life of your battery.

NOTE: If you are out of the WieFi zone or have set WieFi to OFF, additional
charges may be applied by your mobile operator for mobile data use.

Turning Wi-Fi on and connecting to a Wi-Fi network

1 Tap O > > Apps tab > E] Settings > Networks tab > Wi-Fi.

2 Set Wi-Fi to UN to turn it on and start scanning for available Wi-Fi networks.

3 Tap the Wi-Fi menu again to see a list of active and in-rangeWi-Fi networks.
- Secured networks are indicated by a lock icon.

4 Tap a network to connect to it.
- If the network is secured, you are prompted to enter a password or other

credentials. (Ask your network administrator for details)
5 The status bar displays icons that indicate Wi-Fi status.

Bluetooth

You can use Bluetooth to send data by running a corresponding application, but not
from the Bluetooth menu as on most other mobile phones.

NOTE:

- LG is not responsible for the loss, interception or misuse of data sent or
received via the Bluetooth wireless feature.

- Always ensure that you share and receive data with devices that are trusted
and properly secured. If there are obstacles between the devices, the
operating distance may be reduced.

- Some devices, especially those that are not tested or approved by
Bluetooth SIG, may be incompatible with your device.

Turning on Bluetooth and pairing up your phone with a Bluetooth device

You must pair your device with another device before you connect to it.

1 Tap O > tn] > Apps tab > [a Settings > Networks tab > set Bluetooth to ON.
2 Tap the Bluetooth menu again.

3 Choose the device you want to pair with from the list.

Once the paring is successful, your device will connect to the other device.

NOTE: Some devices, especially headsets or handsefree car kits, may have a
fixed Bluetooth PIN, such as 0000. If the other device has a PIN, you will be
asked to enter it.

Send data using the Bluetooth wireless feature

1 Select a file or item, such as a contact, calendar event or media file, from an
appropriate application or from Downloads.

2 Select the option for sending data via Bluetooth.

NOTE: The method for selecting an option may vary by data type.

3 Search for and pair with a Bluetooth-enabled device.

Receive data using the Bluetooth wireless feature
1 Tap O > a > Apps tab > E} Settings > Networks tab > set Bluetooth to ON.
2 Select PAIR to confirm that you are willing to receive data from the device.

Sharing your phone's data connection

USB tethering and portable Wi-Fi hotspot are great features when there are no wireless
connections available. You can share your phone‘s mobile data connection with a
single computer via a USB cable (USB tethering). You can also share your phone‘s data
connection with more than one device at a time by turning your phone into a portable
Wi-Fi hotspot.

When your phone is sharing its data connection, an icon appears in the status bar and
as an ongoing notification in the notifications drawer.

For the latest information about tethering and portable hotspots, including supported
operating systems and other details, visit http://wwwandroid.com/tether.

To share phone's data connection as a portable Wi-Fi hotspot

1 Tap O > (5] > Apps tab > E Settings > Networks tab > Tethering > Wi-Fi
hotspot switch to activate.

2 Enter a password and tap Save.

TIP! If your computer is running Windows 7 or a recent distribution of some
flavours of Linux (such as Ubuntu), you will not usually need to prepare your
computer for tethering. But, if you are running an earlier version of Windows
or another operating system, you may need to prepare your computer to
establish a network connection via USB. For the most current information
about which operating systems support USB tethering and how to configure
them, visit http://www.android.com/tether.

To rename or secure your portable hotspot
You can change the name of your phone‘s Wi-Fi network name (SSID) and secure its
Wi-Fi network.
1 Tap O > jgz] > Apps tab > a Settings > Networks tab > Tethering > Wi-Fi
hotspot.
2 Tap Set up Wi-Fi hotspot.
- The Set up Wi-Fi hotspot dialogue box will open.
- You can change the Wi-Fi name (SSID) that other devices see when scanning for
Wi-Fi networks.
- You can also tap the Security menu to configure the network with Wi-Fi Protected
Access 2 (WPA2) security using a pre-shared key (PSK).
- If you touch the WPA2 PSK security option, a password field is added to the Set
up Wi-Fi hotspot dialogue box. If you enter a password, you will need to enter
that password when you connect to the phone‘s hotspot with a computer or other

device. You can set Open in the Security menu to remove security from your Wi-Fi
network.

3 Tap Save.

ATI'ENTION! If you set the security option as Open, you cannot prevent
unauthorised usage of online services by other people and additional charges
may be incurred. To avoid unauthorised usage, you are advised to keep the
security option active.

Wi-Fi Direct

Wi-Fi Direct supports a direct connection between Wi-Fi enabled devices without an
access point. Due to the high battery usage of Wi-Fi direct, it is recommended that you
plug your phone into a power outlet while using the Wi-Fi Direct feature. Check your
Wi-Fi &Wi-Fi Directed network in advance and make sure the users are connected to
the same network.

To turn on Wi-Fi Direct:

1 Tap O > d > Apps tab > I3 Settings > Networks tab > Wi-Fi.

2 Tap the Menu Key 3 > Advanced Wi-Fi > Wi-Fi Direct.

3 Select a device to connect with from the scanned device list.

Using SmartShare

SmartShare uses DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance) technology to share digital content
through a wireless network. Both devices must be DLNA certified to support this feature.
You can enjoy SmartShare feature on Gallery and Music.
1 0n the content you want to play or beam, tap or Menu Key n > SmartShare.
2 Tap Play or Beam in the dialog box.
- Play: You can stream your content via TV, Bluetooth speaker, etc.
- Beam: You can send your content to Bluetooth devices or SmartShare Beam*—
supported LG phones or tablets.
*SmaItShare Beam quickly transfers multimedia contents through Wi-Fi Direct.
3 Tap the device to play or receive on the list.

- If the device is not on the list, make sure on the device that Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct, or
Bluetooth connection is turned on.And tap Rescan.
4 Tap Send.
To enjoy content from nearby devices such as a computer or mobile device on
your phone
1 To connect the nearby devices to your phone, tap Nearby devices on Gallery, Music
application as below.
<Gallery> <Music>

an e I; "44:”:

      

- Ensure that your phone and nearby devices are connected to the same Wi-Fi network.
- Make sure DLNA feature on the nearby device is turned on.
2 Tap the device to connect.
If the device is not on the list, tap Search nearby devices.
After connection, you can enjoy the contents from the nearby device on your phone.

PC connections with a USB cable
Learn to connect your device to a PC with a USB cable in USB connection modes.

Transferring music, photos and videos using the USB mass storage mode
1 Connect your device to a PC using the USB cable that came with your phone.
2 Open the Notifications panel and select Media device (MTP).

3 A window will pop-up on your PC, allowing you to transfer the desired data.

NOTE:

- The LG Android Platform Driver is required to be installed on your PC to be
able to detect the phone.

- Check the requirements for using Media device (MTP).

Synchronize with Windows Media Player

Ensure that Windows Media Player is installed on your PC.

1 Use the USB cable to connect the phone to a PC on which Windows Media Player
has been installed.

2 Select the Media device (MTP) option. When connected, a pop-up window will
appear on the PC.

3 Open Windows Media Player to synchronize music files.

4 Edit or enter your device's name in the pop-up window (if necessary).

5 Select and drag the music files you want to the sync list.

6 Start synchronization.

- The following requirements must be satisfied to synchronize with Windows Media
Player.

Items Requirement
OS Microsoft Windows XP SP2, Vista or higher
Window Media Player version Windows Media Player 10 or higher

- If the Windows Media Player version is lower than 10, install version 10 or higher.

45

Making a call

1 Tap .to open the keypad.

2 Enter the number using the keypad. To delete a digit, tap the .
3 Tap to make a call.

4 To end a call, tap the End icon n.

TIP! To enter "+" to make international calls, touch and hold -.

Calling your contacts

1 Tap (.9 to open your contacts.

2 Scroll through the contact list or enter the first few letters of the contact you want
to call by tapping Search contacts.

3 In thelist, tap L you want to call.

Answering and rejecting a call

When you receive a call in Lock state, swipe the in any direction to Answer the
incoming call.
Swipe the . n in any direction to Decline an incoming call.

NOTE: Tap or swipe the Decline with message if you want to send a
message to the caller.

Adjusting the in-call volume

To adjust the in-call volume during a call, use the Volume up and down keys on the
back side of the phone.

Making a second call

During your first call, tap Menu key n > Add call and dial the number. You can
also go to the recently dialled numbers list by tapping Call logs or can search
contacts by tapping Contacts and selecting the contact you want to call. Also, you
can search contacts by tapping favourites or Groups.

Tap .to make the call.

Both calls are displayed on the call screen. Your initial call is locked and put on
hold.

Tap the displayed number to toggle between calls. 0r tap 1 Merge calls to start
a conference call.

To end active calls, tap End or tap O and slide the notification bar down and
select the END CALL icon n.

NOTE: You are charged for each call you make.

_.

WM

4;

01

Viewing your call logs

0n the Home screen, tap and choose the Call logs.
View a complete list of all dialled, received and missed calls.

TIP!
- Tap any call log entry to view the date, time and duration of the call.

- Tap the Menu key I, then tap Delete all to delete all the recorded items.

Call settings
You can configure phone call settings such as call forwarding, as well as other special
features offered by your carrier.

1 0n the Home screen, tap I.

2 Tap I.
3 Tap Call settings and choose the options that you wish to adjust.

Add contacts to your phone and synchronize them with the contacts in your Google
account or other accounts that support contact syncing.

Searching for a contact

0n the Home screen
1 Tap Q.) to open your contacts.
2 Tap Search contacts and enter the contact name using the keyboard.

Adding a new contact

1 Tap I, enter the new contact‘s number, then tap the Menu key I. Tap Add to
Contacts > New contact.

2 If you want to add a picture to the new contact, tap the image area.
Choose from Take photo or Select from Gallery.

3 Tap Add another filed enter the details about your contact.

4 Tap Save.

Favourites contacts
You can classify frequently called contacts as favourites.

Adding a contact to your favourites
1 Tap Q.) to open your contacts.
2 Tap a contact to view its details.

3 Tap the star to the right corner of the contact‘s name. The star will turn yellow
colour.

Removing a contact from your favourites list

1 Tap Q; to open your contacts.

2 Tap the Favourites tab, and choose a contact to view its details.

3 Tap the yellow colour star to the right corner of the contact‘s name. The star turns
grey colour and the contact is removed from your favourites.

Creating a group

1 Tap @ to open your contacts.

2 Tap Groups and tap the Menu key I. Select New group.

3 Enter a name for the new group. You can also set a ringtone for the newly created
group.

4 Tap Save to save the group.

NOTE: If you delete a group, the contacts assigned to that group will not be
lost. They will remain in your contacts.

Your phone combines SMS, MMS into one intuitive, easy-to-use menu.

Sending a message

1 Tap E on the Home screen and tap to open a blank message.

2 Enter a contact name or contact number in the To field. As you enter the contact
name, matching contacts will appear. You can tap a suggested recipient. You can
add more than one contact.

NOTE: You will be charged for a text message for every person to whom you
send the message.

3 Tap the Enter message field and begin composing your message.
4 Tap to open the Options menu. Choose from Quick message, Insert smiley,
Schedule sending, Add subject and Discard.

TIP! You can tap the icon to attach the file, that you want to share with
message.

5 Tap Send to send your message.

A WARNING:

- The 16070haracter limit may vary from country to country, depending on the
language and how the SMS is coded.

- If an image, video or audio file is added to an SMS message, it is
automatically converted into an MMS message and you are charged
accordingly.

Threaded box

Messages (SMS, MMS) exchanged with another party can be displayed in chronological
order so that you can conveniently see an overview of your conversation.

Changing your message settings

Your phone message settings are predefined, so you can send messages immediately.
You can change the settings according to your preferences.
- Tap T on the Home screen, tap and then tap Settings.

You can use the E-mail application to read emails from services like Gmail. The Email
application supports the following account types: POP3, IMAP and Exchange.

Your service provider or system administrator can provide you with the account settings
you need.

Managing an email account

The first time you open the E-mail application, a set-up wizard opens to help you to set
up an email account.

After the initial set-up, E-mail displays the contents of your inbox.

To add another email account:

- Tap O > E] > Apps tab > e E-mail > tap I > Settings > + Add account.
To change an email general settings:

- Tap O > E] > Apps tab > e E-mail > tap I > Settings > General settings.
To delete an email account:

- Tap O > E] > Apps tab > @ E-mail > tap I > Settings > tap I > Remove
account > Select the account to delete > Remove > select Yes.

Working with account folders

Tap O > E] > Apps tab > e E-mail > tap I and select Folders.
Each account has an Inbox, 0utbox, Sent and Drafts folder. Depending on the features
supported by your account‘s service provider, you may have additional folders.

Composing and sending email

To compose and send a message

1 While in the E-mail application, tap the.

2 Enter an address for the message‘s intended recipient. As you enter text, matching
addresses will be proposed from your Contacts.

3 Tap the Ito add a Cc/Bcc and tap to attach files, if required.

4 Enter the text of the message.

5 Tap I.

TIP! When a new email arrives in your Inbox, you will be notified by a sound
or vibration.

Camera and Video

You can use the camera or camcorder to take and share pictures and videos. Your
phone comes with a 13 megapixel camera with an autofocus feature that lets you
capture sharp pictures and videos.

NOTE: Be sure to clean the protective lens cover with a microfiber cloth
before taking pictures. A lens cover with smudges from fingers can cause
blurry pictures with a "halo" effect.

To open the Camera application

From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Camera 0.

0R
Tap the Camera icon G from the Home screen.

TIP! If you've set your phone to use the Swipe unlock method, from
the locked screen, simply press the Power/Lock Key Q, on the back of
the phone, then drag the Camera icon O upward to open the Camera
application.

Getting to know the Viewfinder

 

0 Flash —Taps to turn the flash On, Off or set it to Auto.

9 Swap camera — Tap to swap between the rear camera lens and the front camera
lens.

9 Mode — Mode to select the mode from Auto, Magic focus, Panorama, Dual and
SIo—mo.

0 Settings —Tap to adjust the following camera and video settings.

a Gallery — Tap to access your Gallery.

@Video Recording button —Tap to start recording a video.

0 Capture button —Tap to take a photo.

0 Exit —Tap to close the selected menu or exit the Camera app.

Take Pictures

Taking pictures with your phone's built-in camera is as simple as choosing a subject,
pointing the lens, and pressing a button.

To take a picture:

1 From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Camera *0“.

2 Frame your subject on the screen.

3 A square around the subject indicates that the camera has focused.

4 Tap @ to take a photo. Your picture will be automatically saved to the Gallery.

Record Videos

In addition to taking pictures, you can record, view, and send videos with your phone's
built-in video camera.

1 From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Camera 0.

2 Frame your subject on the screen.

3 Tap 0 to start recording the video.

4 The length of the recording is displayed on the top of the screen.

NOTE: Tap @ to take pictures while recording video.

5 Tap 0to pause recording video. You can resume recording again tapping ..
OR
6 Tap O to stop recording. Your video will be automatically saved to the Gallery.

Camera and Video Settings

From the camera mode, tap each icon to adjust the following camera settings.

- Flash I: Taps to turn the flash On, Off or set it to Auto.

- Swap camera I: To swap between the rear camera lens and the front camera lens.

- Mode -: Mode to select the mode from: Auto, Magic focus, Panorama, Dual
and SIo—mo.

, Auto: Captures a auto photo shot.

, Magic focus: Magic focus lets you choose your focus again after taking a photo.

, Panorama: Creates a wide photo of a panoramic view. Hold the phone horizontally,
press the shutter to start and slowly sweep the camera across the scene.

, Dual: Captures a photo or recording a video using both of camera lens. Touch and
hold the small screen to resize or move it.

, SIo—mo: Allows you to record videos at high frame rate so that you can view the
video as slow motion.

- Settings El: To adjust the following camera and video settings.

, Dynamic tone (HDR): Combines photos taken at multiple exposures into one
optimal photo to get a better photo in tricky lighting situations.

, Image size: Set the size of your picture. Choose from 13M 4160x3120, W10M
4160x2340, 9M 3120x3120 or 3M 2048x1536. Set the size of your video. Choose
from UHD 3840x2160, FHD 1920x1080 or HD 1280x720.

, Cheese shutter: Allows you to take pictures with voice commands. When on, you
just say "Cheese", "Smile", "Whiskey", "Kimchi", or "LG" to take a picture.

, Timer: Set your camera‘s timer. This is ideal if you want to be a part of the picture.

57

, Grid: It is easily used to take better pictures to keeping horizontal and verticals.

, SD: Set the storage location for your pictures. Choose from IN or SD. This menu
appears only when the SD card is inserted.

, Help: Allows you to learn how a function works. This icon will provide you with a
quick guide.

Multi-point Auto Focus
When you take a picture, the Multi-point Auto Focus (AF) function operates
automatically and will allow you to see a clear image.

Dual

The Dual feature allows you to take a picture or record video with the front and rear
cameras at the same time.

1 From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Camera to).

2 Tap > I.

 

NOTE: Drag the small screen to move it to your desired location. Touch and
hold the small screen to resize it. Tap on the small screen to switch screens.

3 Tap G to take a picture. Tap O to start dual recording.
4 Tap 0 to stop dual recording.

Gesture shot
The Gesture shot feature allows you to take a picture with a hand gesture using the
front camera.

To take photo

There are two methods for using the Gesture shot feature.

- Raise your hand, with an open palm, until the front camera detects it and a box
appears on the screen. Then close your hand into a fist to start the timer, allowing you
time to get ready.

- Raise your hand, in a clenched fist, until the front camera detects it and a box
appears on the screen. Then unclench your fist to start the timer, allowing you time to
get ready.

0f

 

Super Zooming
You can use a zoom up to 8 times while taking pictures.

TIP! Will two fingers on the screen, and then to close or open has been using
the zoom function, this function will automatically run.

NOTE: Use a steady hand. This feature does not work with some functions
Objects can be overlapped when taking a picture of fastemoving subjects.

View Your Pictures

The Gallery is where you can access the Gallery of stored camera images. You can view
them in a slideshow, share them with your friends, and delete and edit them.

1 From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Gallery Isl.

2 Select a location and tap an image to view your picture.

Gallery Options

The Gallery application presents the pictures and videos in your storage, including those

you've taken with the Camera application and those you downloaded from the web or

other locations.

If you have one of your phone's Google Accounts, you'll also see your web albums in

Gallery.

1 From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Gallery II:-.Ito view the
images stored in the storage.
, Drag up or down to view more albums.

2 Tap an album to open it and view its contents. (The pictures and videos in the
album are displayed in chronological order.)

3 Tap a picture in an album to view it.

 

, Tap a picture group again to reveal the following icons:
- Camera: Opens the Camera.

- Share: You can share the picture via various methods such as Messaging or
Bluetooth.

- E Delete: Deletes the picture.

, Tap a picture in an album then tap Ifor the following options: Move, Copy,
Make collage, Lock, Show locked files, Slideshow and Rotate.
, Tap the Back Key 4 to return to the previous screen.

Assign Pictures
After taking a picture, assign it as a picture ID for a Contacts entry or as the Home
screen background image (wallpaper).
1 From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Gallery g.
2 Tap an album and tap an image to view it.
3 With the picture displayed, tap I > Set image as.
4 Select an option.
, Contact photo to assign the picture to a Contact entry as a picture ID. Tap an
entry from Contacts, crop the image and tap OKto assign the picture.

, Lock screen wallpaper to assign the picture as a background image for your lock
screen.

>Wallpaper to assign the picture as a background image, crop the image and tap
SET WALLPAPER to assign the picture.

, Home screen to assign the picture as a background image, crop the image and
tap OK to assign the picture.

Video Options

The Gallery is where you can access the Gallery of stored video images. You can view

them, share them with your friends, and delete and edit them.

From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Gallery Iglto view the

videos stored in storage.

, Scroll up or down to view more albums.

Tap an album to open it and view its contents. (The pictures and videos in the

album are displayed in chronological order.)

Tap a video to view it. You can access the following options:

,9 Edit: Tap here to edit your video.

>l QSIide: Enables an overlay on your phone's display for easy multitasking.

, SmartShare: Shares media files with DLNA certified devices.

>ﬂ Menu: Tap to access Screen ratio, Subtitles, Share, Details, Settings
options.

, ﬂ Volume: Tap to display the Volume slider bar, then adjust the playback volume
on the slider bar.

pH Lock/Unlock: Locks the touch keys to prevent unintentional touches.

Play a Video

1 From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Gallery Wto view videos
stored in the storage.
, Scroll up or down to view more albums.

_.

N

03

2 Tap an album to open it and view its contents. (The pictures and videos in the
album are displayed in chronological order.)

3 Tap a video in an album to play.
, Tap the video to view the playback controls.

NOTE: While a video is playing, slide the left side of the screen up or down

to adjust the screen brightness. While a video is playing, slide the right side

of the screen up or down to adjust the sound. While playing a video, tap the
timeline point to preview that portion of the video via a small screen. Tap the
small screen to jump to that part of the video. While playing a video, slide your
finger from left to right (or vice versa) to fasteforward and rewind.

Live Zoom

Live Zoom allows you to zoom in or zoom out on a portion of a video that is being
played to make the desired section appear larger or smaller.

When viewing a video, use your index finger and thumb in a pinching or spreading
motion to zoom in or out.

   

NOTE: Do not press too hard; the touch screen is sensitive enough to pick
up a light, but firm touch.

Dual Play

Dual Play (connected wired or wirelessly two displays) can be run on a different screen.

NOTE: Connect devices using wired (SlimporteHDMl) cable or wirelessly
(Miracast). The connectable device can be a TV or a monitor supported by
an HDMI cable or Miracast. The Gallery and Video apps are supported on
Dual Play. Not all videos are supported by Dual Play. Dual Play operates at
1280x720 or higher display resolution.

Gallery
Open the Gallery application to view albums of your pictures and videos.

To open the Gallery application
- From the Home screen, tap the O > (5] > Apps tab > Gallery :.

Viewing your albums

The Gallery application presents the pictures and videos saved in your phone, including

those you've taken with the Camera application and those you downloaded from the

web or other locations.

- Tap an album to open it and view its contents.

- Tap a picture or video in an album to view it.

- Tap the Menu Key I (at the top right corner of the screen) to access New Album,
Delete, Set preferred albums, Show locked files, Settings, and Help.

- Tap the Camera icon Ito return to the Camera application.

To share an album

You can share the entire contents of one or more albums or individual images or videos

from an album.

1 From the Home screen, tap the O > E] > Apps tab > Gallery A.

2 Touch and hold the desired album, tap Share, select the application to use to share
your images, then complete the sending method as necessary.

Working with photos

Use the Gallery application to view pictures that you've taken with the Camera

application, downloaded.

To view and browse photos

1 From the Home screen, tap the O > jg] > Apps tab > Gallery A.

2 Open an album and tap a picture.

3 Tap the Menu Key I (at the top right corner of the screen) to access SmartShare,
Set image as, Move, Copy, Copy to Clip Tray, Lock, Slideshow, Rotate, Crop, Add
location, Rename, Print, or Details.

Share Icon

Tap here to share the photo using
the method you select.

Camera Mode Icon
Tap here to go to camera mode

   
  
  
   
   
 
  
   

Favourite Icon
Tap to add the picture to your
favourites.

Delete Icon
Tap here to delete the photo.

Edit Icon

Tap here to edit your picture. Swipe horizontally to scroll through

the photos in the current album.

To share a Video

1 Open an album to view its contents, then tap the Share icon at the top of the
Gallery screen.

2 Checkmark the video(s) you want to share, tap Share at the bottom of the screen,
select how to share the file(s), then complete as necessary.

To delete a Video

1 Open an album to view its contents, then tap the Delete icon E at the top of the
Gallery screen.

2 Checkmark the video(s) you want to delete, tap Delete at the bottom of the screen,
then tap Yes to confirm.

QSIide while playing videos

You can play videos in a 0Slide window allowing you to use other applications while the

video is playing.

1 Open the Gallery application and begin playing the video.

2 Tap the OSIide icon @ at the top right corner of the screen to activate the 0Slide
feature to play the video in a 0Slide window.

3 To close the 0Slide window, tap the in the upper-right corner of its title bar.

Capture+

The Capture+ allows you to create memos and capture screen shots. Capture screens,
draw on them and share them with family and friends with Capture+.

1 (While screen is switched off) Press
and hold the Volume Up key.
OR

Touch and slide the status bar downward
and tap Ii.

 

2 Select the desired menu option from
Size, Transparency and create a
memo.

 

3 Tap in the Edit menu to save the
memo with the current screen. To exit
Capture+ at any time, tap <1.

 

NOTE: Please use a fingertip while using the Capture+. Do not use your
fingernail.

Using the Capture+ options
You can easily use the editing tools when using the Capture+.

 

Save the memo with the current screen in the Gallery or Capture+.

 

Undo or Redo.

 

Use complex concept function.

 

Select Pen type, Size, Transparency and Colour.

Erase the memo that you created.

 

Slice the image as you want.

 

 

IEEHHIK

Option: Tap to choose Share, Paper style for the memo.

 

Viewing the saved Capture+
Tap Capture+/Gallery and select the Capture+ album.

68

QSIide

From any screen, bring up a notepad, calendar, and more as a window inside your
screen.

 

 

 

ﬁ?‘ 0 E] Tap to exit the 0Slide and return to
If 13:: full window.
7 o 9 I] Swipeto adjusttransparency.
I , a j 9 Tap to end the 0Slide.
I 2 a . o A Swipeto adjustthe size.
‘i I»%
<1 0 El
kg!

 

 

1 Touch and slide the Status bar downward and tap QSIide to view the available
0Slide apps.

TIP! Also, while using applications that support OSIide, tap I > OSIide. The
function is displayed as a small window on your screen.

2 You can make a call, browse the Web, or choose other phone options. You can also
use and tap the screen under the small windows when the transparency bar is not
full —.

NOTE: The OSIide can support up to two windows at the same time.

QuickRemote

QuickRemote turns your phone into a Universal Remote for your home TV, Set top box,
audio system.

1 Touch and slide the status bar
1 downwards and tap D > ADD

REMOTE.
0R

@0>E]>Appstab>
9°. QuickRemote > tap I.

 

2 Select the type and brand of device,
then follow the on-screen instructions
“ 9W” to configure the device(s).
I. —I—

 

 

 

 

3 Touch and slide the status bar

I: downwards and use QuickRemote
‘ functions.

‘.0

NOTE: The QuickRemote operates the same way as an ordinary remote

control infrared (IR) signals. Be careful not to cover the infrared sensor at the top

of the phone when you use the QuickRemote function. This function may not
W be supported depending on the model, the manufacturer or service company.

 

Smart Keyboard

Smart Keyboard recognizes your keyboard input habit and provide your own keyboard
quickly inputting without errors.

Move cursor using space bar

Touch and hold the space bar and left or right to move
the cursor.

 

Enter suggested word using gesture
control

Enter text on the keyboard and the related word
suggestions appear. Flick upward on the left to select the

t left-side suggestion. Flick upward on the right to select

um an..."
ll an IE III II

ungrguI

u the right-side suggestion.

I
“Mgr,“
QUINN-
ﬂﬁﬂ Q I.

LG SmartWorId

LG SmartWorld offers an assortment of exciting content — fonts, themes, games,
applications.

How to Get to LG SmartWorId from Your Phone

1 Tap O > E] > Apps tab > tap the (9 icon to access LG SmartWorld.
2 Tap Sign in and enter ID/PW for LG SmartWorld. If you have not signed up yet, tap
Register to receive your LG SmartWorld membership.
3 Download the content you want.
* When you use Cellular network, data fee could be charged by data plan that you
signed-up with carrier.
* LG SmartWorld may not be available from all carriers or in all countries.

NOTE: What if there is no (9 icon?

1 Using a mobile Web browser, access LG SmartWorld (www.lgworld.com)
and select your country.

2 Download the LG SmartWorld App.

3 Run and install the downloaded file.

4 Access LG SmartWorld by tapping the ('3) icon.

Special benefit only in LG SmartWorld

1 Decorate your own style on your Smartphone, use Home Theme &
Keyboard Theme & Font that provided on LG SmartWorld. (However this
service is available to specific device. Please check in LG SmartWorld
website whether it is feasible or not.)

2 Enjoy LG SmartWorld's special service by joining promotion that
consistently provided.

Multimedia

Music

Your phone has a built-in music player that lets you play all your favourite tracks. To
access the music player, tap O > E] > Apps tab > Music.

Add music files to your phone
Start by transferring music files to your phone:
- Transfer music using Media device (MTP).

- Download from the wireless Web.

- Synchronize your phone to a computer.

- Receive files via Bluetooth.

Transfer music using Media device (MTP)
1 Connect the phone to your PC using the USB cable.
2 Select the Media device (MTP) option. Your phone will appear as another hard

drive on your computer. Click on the drive to view it. Copy the files from your PC to
the drive folder.

3 When you're finished transferring files, swipe down on the Status Bar and tap USB
PC connection > Charge phone. You may now safely unplug your device.

Playing a song

1 Tap O > E> Apps tab > Music.
2 Tap Songs.

3 Select the song you want to play.

 

II Tap to pause playback.

 

> Tap to resume playback.

 

Tap to skip to the next track in the album, playlist, or shuffle. Touch and hold
to fast forward.

Tap to restart the current track or skip to the previous track in the album,
playlist, or shuffle. Touch and hold to rewind. 73

 

 

 

‘3 Tap to display the Volume slider bar, then adjust the playback volume on the
slider bar.

Tap to set audio effects.

Tap to open the current playlist.

Tap to add the song to your favourites.

Tap to play the current playlist in shuffle mode (tracks are played in random
order).

Tap to toggle through the repeat modes to repeat all songs, repeat current
song, or repeat off.

Tap to share your music via the SmartShare funtion.

To change the volume While listening to music, press the up and down volume keys on
the back side of the phone.

Touch and hold any song in the list. The Play, Add to playlist, Delete, Share, Set as
ringtone and Search options will be displayed.

NOTE:

- Some file formats are not supported, depending on the device software.

- If the file size exceeds the available memory, an error can occur when you
open files.

NOTE: Music file copyrights may be protected by international treaties and
national copyright laws.

Therefore, it may be necessary to obtain permission or a licence to reproduce
or copy music.

In some countries, national laws prohibit private copying of copyrighted
material. Before downloading or copying the file, check the national laws of
the relevant country concerning the use of such material.

Utilities
Setting your alarm

1 Tap O > E]> Apps tab > ICIock > o.

2 After you set the alarm, your phone lets you know how much time is left before the
alarm will go off.

3 Set Repeat, Snooze duration, Alarm with vibration, Alarm sound, Alarm
volume, Auto-start app, Puzzle lock and Memo. Tap SAVE.

NOTE: To change alarm settings in the alarm list screen, tap the Menu key
I and select Settings.

Using your calculator

1 Tap O > E] > Apps tab > E Calculator.

2 Tap the number keys to enter numbers.

3 For simple calculations, tap the function you want to perform (+, —, x or +) followed
by =.

4 To check the history, tap the icon I, then tap Calculation history.

5 For more complex calculations, tap the Menu Key I, then tap Scientific
calculator.

Adding an event to your calendar

1 Tap O > E] > Apps tab > g Calendar.

2 0n the screen, you can find the different view types for the Calendar (Day, Week,
Month, Year, Agenda).

3 Tap on the date for which you wish to add an event and tap o.

4 Tap Event name and enter the event name.

5 Tap Location and enter the location. Check the date and enter the time you wish
your event to start and finish.

6 If you wish to repeat the alarm, set REPEAT and set REMINDERS, if necessary.

75

7 Tap SAVE to save the event in the calendar.

Voice Recorder
Use the voice recorder to record voice memos or other audio files.

Recording a sound or voice

1 Tap O > E] > Apps tab > Voice Recorder.
2 Tap 0 to begin recording.

3 Tap l to end therecording.

4 Tap > to listen to the recording.

NOTE: Tap :E to access your Recorded files. You can listen to the saved
recording. The available recording time may differ from actual recording time.

Sending the voice recording

1 Once you have finished recording, you can send the audio clip by tapping I.

2 Choose from E-mail, Messaging, Capture+, Bluetooth, Gmail, SmartShare
Beam, Drive or Android Beam. or When you select E-mail, Messaging,
Capture+, Bluetooth, Gmail, SmartShare Beam, Drive and Android Beam
the voice recording is added to the message. You may then write and send the
message as you usually would.

Tasks

This task can be synchronized with MS Exchange account. You can create task, revise it
and delete it in MS outlook or MS Office Outlook Web Access.

To Synchronize MS Exchange

1 From the Home Screen, tap O > E] > Apps tab > a Settings.

76

2 Tap General tab > Accounts & sync > Add account.
3 Tap Microsoft Exchange to create Email address and Password.
4 Make sure if you checkmark Sync task.

NOTE: MS Exchange may not be supported depending on email server.

Google+
Use this application to stay connected with people via Google's social network service.
- Tap O > E] > Apps tab > E Google > @ Google+.

NOTE: This application may not be available depending on the region or
service provider.

Voice Search

Use this application to search webpages using voice.

1 Tap O > E] > Apps tab > Google > S Voice Search.

2 Say a keyword or phrase when Listening... appears on the screen. Select one of
the suggested keywords that appear.

NOTE: This application may not be available depending on the region or
service provider.

Downloads

Use this application to see whaLﬁIes have been downloaded through the applications.
- Tap O > E] > Apps tab > Downloads.

NOTE: This application may not be available depending on the region or
service provider.

The Web

Internet

Use this application to browse the Internet. Browser gives you a fast, full-colour world of
games, music, news, sports, entertainment and much more, right on your mobile phone
Wherever you are and Whatever you enjoy.

NOTE: Additional charges apply when connecting to these services and
downloading content. Check data charges with your network provider.

1 Tap O > E] > Apps tab > @ Internet.
Using the Web toolbar
Tap slide it downwards with your finger to open.

Tap to go back one page.

Tap to go forward one page, to the page you connected to after the current
one. This is the opposite of what happens when you tap 4.

E Tap to go to the Home page.

 

 

 

 

Tap to add a new Window.

 

 

Tap to access bookmarks.

 

Viewing webpages
Tap the address field, enter the web address and tap Go.

Opening a page

To go to new page, tap -> I.
To go to another webpage, tap I, scroll up or down, and tap the page to select it.

Searching the web by voice
Tap the address field, tap \‘2 , speak a keyword, and then select one of the suggested
keywords that appear.

NOTE: This feature may not be available depending on the region or service
provider.

Bookmarks
To bookmark the current webpage, tap I > Add bookmark > SAVE.
To open a bookmarked webpage, tap and select one.

History
Tap IE > History to open a webpage from the list of recently-visited webpages. To
clear all history, tap E -> YES.

Using Popup Browser

Use this feature to access the Internet Without closing the current application [a
While viewing content, such as contacts or notes that include web addresses, select a
web address and then tap Popup Browser to open the pop-up browser. Touch and drag
the browser to move it to another location.

To view the browser in full screen, tap E].

To close the browser, tap I.

Chrome
Use Chrome to search for information and browse webpages.
1 Tap O > E] > Apps tab > (,0. Chrome.

NOTE: This application may not be available, depending on your region and
service provider.

Viewing webpages
Tap the Address field, and then enter a web address or search criteria.

Opening a page
To goto a new page, tab Menu key I -* New tab.
To go to another webpage, tap |:|, scroll up or down and tap the page to select it.

Syncing With other devices

Sync open tabs and bookmarks to use with Chrome on another device when you are
logged in with the same Google account.

To view open tabs on other devices, tap Menu key 5 -> Recent tabs.

Select a webpage to open.

To add bookmarks, tap Menu key 5 -> E.

This section provides an overview of items you can change using your phone‘s System
settings menus.

To access the Settings menu:

Tap O > Touch and hold D > System settings.

_ or _

Tap O > E] > Apps tab > El Settings.

Networks

< Wi-Fi >
Wi-Fi —Turns on Wi-Fi to connect to available Wi-Fi networks.

TIP! How to obtain the MAC address
To set up a connection in some wireless networks with MAC filters, you may
need to enter the MAC address of your phone in the router.

You can find the MAC address in the following user interface: tap O > E] >

Apps tab > E Settings > Networks tab > Wi-Fi > I > Advanced Wi-Fi >
MAC address.

< Bluetooth >
Turn the Bluetooth wireless feature on or off to use Bluetooth.

< Mobile data >
Displays the data usage and set mobile data usage limit.

< Call >

Configure phone call settings such as call forwarding and other special features offered
by your carrier.

Voicemail — Allows you to select your carrier's voicemail service.

Fixed dialing numbers —Turn on and compile a list of numbers that can be called
from your phone. You'll need your PIN2, which is available from your operator. Only

numbers within the fixed dial list can be called from your phone. —

Incoming voice call pop-up — Display incoming voice call pop-up when an app is in
use.
Call reject —Allows you to set the call reject function. Choose from Call reject mode
or Reject calls from.
Decline with message —When you want to reject a call, you can send a quick
message using this function. This is useful if you need to reject a call during a meeting.
Call forwarding — Choose Whether to divert all calls when the line is busy, when there
is no answer or when you have no signal.
Auto answer — Set the time before a connected hands-free device automatically
answers an incoming call. Choose from Off, 1 sec, 3 sec and 5 sec.
Connection vibration — Vibrates your phone when the other party answers the call.
Noise suppression — Suppresses background noise on your device during a call.
Voice enhancement — Enhances voice quality in noisy environments so you can hear
more clearly.
Save unknown numbers —Add unknown numbers to contacts after a call.
Power key ends call —Allows you to select your end call.
Answer an incoming call — Enable to allow you to bring the device to your ear to
automatically answer the incoming call.
Silence incoming calls — Enable to allow you to flip the device to silence incoming
calls.
Call barring — Lock incoming, outgoing or international calls.
Call duration —View the duration of calls including Last call, Outgoing calls,
Incoming calls and All calls.
Additional settings — Allows you to change the following settings:
Caller ID: Choose Whether to display your number in an outgoing call.
Call waiting: If call waiting is activated, the handset will notify you of an incoming call
While you are on a call (depending on your network provider).

< Share & connect >
NFC — Your phone is an NFC-enabled mobile phone. NFC (Near Field Communication) is a
wireless connectivity technology that enables two-way communication between electronic
devices. It operates over a distance of a few centimeters. You can share your content with
an NFC tag or another NFC support device by simply tapping it with your device. If you tap
an NFC tag with your device, it will display the tag content on your device.
To switch NFC on or off: From the Home screen, touch and slide the notification
panel down with your finger, then select the NFC icon to turn it on.

NOTE: When airplane mode is activated, the NFC application can be used.

Using NFC: To use NFC, make sure your device is switched on, and activate NFC if
disabled.
Android Beam —When this feature is turned on, you can beam app content to another
NFC-capable device by holding the devices close together.
Just bring the device together(typically back to back) and then tap your screen. The app
determines what gets beamed.
SmartShare Beam —Turn on to receive multimedia content via Smartshare Beam from
LG phones or tables.
Media server — Share media content with nearby devices via DLNA.
Miracast — Mirror phone screen and sound onto Miracast dongle orTV wirelessly.
LG PC Suite — Connect LG PC Suite with your phone to easily manage multimedia
content and apps.
Printing — Set wireless printer.

< Tethering >

USB tethering — Connect the USB cable to share the internet connection with the
computer.

Wi-Fi hotspot —You can also use your phone to provide a mobile broadband
connection. Create a hotspot and share your connection. Please "Sharing phone's
data connection" for more information.

Bluetooth tethering — Allows you to set your phone whether you are sharing the
Internet connection or not.

Help —Tap to view help information on the Wi-Fi hotspot, USB tethering and Bluetooth
tethering functions.

<More>

Airplane mode —After switching to Airplane mode, all Wireless connections are
disabled.

Mobile networks — Set options for data roaming, network mode & operators, access
point names (APNs) etc.

VPN — Displays the list ofViItual Private Networks (VPNs) that you‘ve previously
configured. Allows you to add different types ofVPNs.

Sound & notification

Sound profile — Choose the Sound, either Vibrate only or Silent.

Volume — Adjust the phone‘s volume settings to suit your needs and your environment.
Ringtone — Set the ringtone for calls. You can also add a ringtone by tapping at the
top right corner of the screen.

Ringtone ID —Allows to compose ringtones automatically based on the phone number
of the incoming call.

Vibration strength — Allows you to set the vibrate strength for calls, notifications, and
Vibrate on tap.

Sound with vibration — Checkmark to set the phone to vibrate in addition to the
ringtone when you receive calls.

Vibration type — Allows you to set the vibration type for incoming calls. Choose from
Long Lasting, Rapid, Short repeated, Standard or Ticktock.

Do not disturb — Set a time and mode when your phone doesn't let you know about
notifications coming in. Choose from Priority only or Total silence.

Lock screen — Set to show or hide all notifications on the lock screen.

84

Apps — Set notification from Apps. Choose from None to show no notifications form the
Apps, and Priority to show notifications with priority on top of others and when Do not
disturb set to Priority only.

Notification LED —Tap the switch to toggle it On or Off. Oh will activate the LED light
for the notifications you select, in the colour you set for each one.

<More>
Notification sound —Allows you to set the notification sound. You can also add a
notification sound by tapping in the upper-right corner of the screen.
Vibrate on tap — Checkmark to vibrate when tapping the Home touch buttons and
during other UI interactions.
Sound effects —Tap to set the dial pad touch tones, touch sounds, and screen lock
sound.
Dialpad touch sounds — Checkmark to play tones while using dial pad.
Touch sound — Checkmark to play sound when making screen selection.
Screen lock sound — Checkmark to play sound when locking and unlocking the
screen.
Message/call voice notification —Tap the Message/call voice notification switch
to toggle it On or Off. On allows your device to read out incoming calls and message
events automatically.

Display

< HOME & LOCK >

Home screen

Select Home — Set Home or EasyHome as default home.

Smart Bulletin —Tap the Smart Bulletin switch to toggle it On or Off. It includes an
additional Home screen showing customized information. Checkmark Calendar, LG
Health, Smart Tips, Music or QuickRemote.

Theme — Sets the screen theme for your device. You can download it from LG
SmartWorld.

Wallpaper — Sets the wallpaper to use on your Home screen. Select it from Gallery,
Wallpaper gallery, Live wallpapers, Multi-photo or Photos.

Screen swipe effect — Sets the effect when you swipe to change screens. Choose
from Slide, Breeze, Accordion, Panorama, Carousel, Layer or Domino.

Allow Home screen looping — Checkmark to allow continuous Home screen scrolling
(loop back to first screen after last screen).

Help — Displays information regarding the Home screen items and functions.

Lock screen

Select screen lock — Set a screen lock type to secure your phone. Opens a set of
screens that guide you through drawing a screen unlock pattern. Set None, Swipe,
Knock Code, Pattern, PIN or Password.

If you have enabled a Pattern lock type when you turn on your phone or wake up the
screen, you will be asked to draw your unlock pattern to unlock the screen.

Smart Lock — Set when to automatically unlock phone by Trusted devices (BT device
or NFC) or Trusted face. This function is available when the Lock screen is set to one of
the Knock Code, Pattern, PIN and Password.

NOTE: To activate this function, Smart Lock must be On.
Settings > General > Security > Trust agents > Smart Lock.

Screen swipe effects — Sets the screen swipe effect options. Choose from Hula
hoop, Circle mosaic, Light particle, Vector circle or Soda.

NOTE: This setting name may be Pattern effect if the Screen lock is set to
Pattern.
Wallpaper — Sets your Lock screen wallpaper. Select it from Gallery or Wallpaper

gallery.
Shortcuts —Allows you to change the shortcuts on the Swipe Lock screen.

Weather animation — Checkmark to show weather animation for current location on
lock screen.

Contact info for lost phone — Checkmark to set the device owner's name to be
displayed on the Lock screen. Enter the text to be displayed as the Owner info.

Lock timer — Sets the amount of time before the screen automatically locks after the
screen has timed-out.

Power button instantly locks — Checkmark to instantly lock the screen when the
Power/Lock Key is pressed. This setting overrides the Security lock timer setting.

Horne touch buttons

Button combination — Drag an icon to rearrange Home touch buttons. You can have
up to 5 Home touch buttons.

Colour — Sets the background colour for the Home touch buttons. Select it from White
and Black.

Hide Home touch buttons — Set the Home Touch Keys displayed at the bottom of all
of the screens. Set which ones are displayed, their position on the bar, and what they
look like. Select the keys and order, the theme, and the background.

< FONT >

Font type — Sets the type of font used for the phone and menus.

Font size — Sets the size of the font displayed in the phone and menus.

< BASIC SETTINGS >

Brightness — Adjusts the brightness of the screen. For best battery performance, use
the dimmest comfortable brightness.

Auto-rotate screen — Checkmark to set the phone to automatically rotate the screen
based on the phone orientation (portrait or landscape).

Screen timeout — Sets the amount of time before the screen times out.

Smart screen — Checkmark to allow the screen to stay on when phone detects your
face.

< More >

Daydream —Tap the Daydream switch to toggle it On or Off. On allows the set
screensaver to be displayed when the phone is sleeping While docked or charging.
Choose from Clock and Google Photos.

Motion sensor calibration — Allows you to improve the accuracy of the tilt and
speed of the sensor.

General

< Language & keyboard >

Use the Language & keyboard settings to select the language for the text on your
phone and to configure the on-screen keyboard, including words you‘ve added to its
dictionary.

Language — Sets the language to use on your device.

Current keyboard — Shows the current keyboard which you set to use.

LG Keyboard — Select the LG Keyboard to enter data.

Google voice typing — Select Google voice typing to enter data.

Text-to-speech output — Sets the preferred speech engine and speech rate (very slow
to very fast). Also plays a short demonstration of speech synthesis.

Pointer speed — Sets the pointer speed on a slide bar.

Reverse buttons — Reverse the mouse buttons to use primary button on right.

< Location >
Turn on location service, your phone determines your approximate location using GPS,
Wi-Fi and mobile networks.
Mode — Set the location mode.
High accuracy(GPS and networks) — Use GPS, Wi-Fi and mobile networks to
estimate location.
Battery saving(Networks only) — Use Wi-Fi and mobile networks to estimate
m location.

Device sensors only(GPS only) — Use GPS to pinpoint your location.
RECENT LOCATION REQUEST — Display apps that have recently requested location
information.

LOCATION SERVICES

Camera — Checkmark to tag photos or videos with their locations.

Google Location History — Select whether to turn on or off Google Location Reporting
options. For further information, tap I > Help.

< Accounts & sync >

Permits applications to synchronize data in the background, Whether or not you are
actively working in them. Deselecting this setting can save battery power and lower (but
not eliminate) data usage.

< Cloud >

Add a cloud account to quickly and easily use cloud service on LG apps.

< Users >

Checkmark to add users when phone locked.

NOTE: Add user to share the phone with other people. Each user can have
their own apps and content in their own space. Anyone using the phone can
change settings like WieFi and accept app updates that will affect everyone.
Initial setup is required for new users to use phone.

< Accessibility >
Use the Accessibility settings to configure accessibility plug-ins you have installed on
your phone.
Vision
TalkBack — Allows you to set up the TalkBack function which assists people with
impaired vision by providing verbal feedback.
Message/call voice notifications — Tap em to toggle it On or Off. On allows you
to hear automatic spoken alerts for incoming calls and messages.

Screen shade — Enable to set the screen to a darker contrast.
Font size — Sets the font size.
Touch zoom —Allows you to zoom in and out by triple-tapping the screen.
Screen colour inversion — Enable to invert the colour of the screen and content.
Screen colour adjustment —Allows you to invert the colour of screen and content.
Screen colour filter —Allows you to change the colour of screen and content.
Power key ends call — Enable so that you can end voice calls by pressing the
Power/Lock Key.
Heanng
Captions — Allows you to customize caption settings for those with hearing
impairments.
Notification LED —Allows you to activate the LED light for incoming calls and
notifications.
Flash alerts — Enable to set the flash to blink for incoming calls and notifications.
Turn off all sounds — Enable to turn off all device sounds.
Audio type — Sets the audio type.
Sound balance — Sets the audio route. Move the slider on the slide bar to set it.
Motor & cognition
Touch feedback time — Sets the touch feedback time.
Touch assistant — Show a touch board with easy access to common actions.
Screen timeout — Sets the amount of time before the backlight turns off
automatically.
Touch control areas — Allows you to select an area of the screen to limit touch
activation to just that area of the screen.
Accessibility features shortcut — Allow you to access selected features quickly when
triple-tapping the Home button.
Auto-rotate screen — Enable to allow the phone to rotate the screen depending on the
physical phone orientation (portrait or landscape).

90

Switch Access — Allows you to interact with your device using one or more switches
that work like keyboard keys. This menu can be helpful for users with mobility
limitations that prevent them from interacting directly with the your device.

< Shortcut key >

Get quick access to apps by pressing and holding the Volume keys when screen is off
or locked. Tap the Shortcut key switch [a] at the top right corner of the screen to toggle
it On or Off.

< Google >
Allows you to manage settings for Google apps and services.

< Security >
Content lock — Lock files for Gallery and memos for Capture+.
Encrypt phone —Allows you to encrypt data on the phone for security. You will be
required to enter a PIN or password to decrypt your phone each time you power it on.
Encrypt SD card storage —Allows you to encrypt SD card storage and keep data
unavailable for other devices.
Password typing visible — Show the last character of the hidden password as you
type.
Phone administrators —View or deactivate phone administrators.
Unknown source — Default setting to install non-Play store applications.
Verify apps — Disallow or warn before installation of apps that may cause harm.
Storage type — Software only.
Certificate management

Trusted credentials — Display trusted CA certificates.

Install from storage — Choose to install encrypted certificates.

Clear credentials — Remove all certificates.
Trust agents — Select apps to use Without unlocking screen.
Screen pin —Allow the app to be the only one used when you pin a screen of an App.
App usage access — Allows you to view usage information of apps on your phone.

91

< QuickCircle case >
Activate to make features, such as Call logs, Camera, LG Health, Messaging, Music
available in small view when using the OuickCircle case.

< Dual Window >
The two split-screen can be viewed at the same time.

1.Touch and hold the Back button to split the screen.

2. Tap or drag app icon you want to use.

‘I — Switch two screens.

It —View app list.

H — Open full screen.

>< — Close most recent app.

Split view — Checkmark to tap a link on the full screen or attachment from emails to
run Dual Window automatically.

Help — Display tips for using Dual Window.

< Date & time >

Use Date & time settings to set how dates will be displayed. You can also use these
settings to set your own time and time zone rather than obtaining the current time from
the mobile network.

< Storage & USB >

INTERNAL STORAGE — View the internal storage usage.

SD CARD — Check total available SD card space. Touch Unmount SD card for safe
removal.

< Battery & power saving >

BATTERY INFORMATION
The Battery charge information is displayed on a battery graphic along with the
percentage of the remaining charge and its status.

Touch the Battery charge icon to display the Battery use screen to see battery usage
level and battery use details. It displays which components and applications are using
the most battery power. Tap one of the entries to see more detailed information.
Battery usage — It displays the battery graph which is the remaining level based on
recent 3-hour usage pattern. It also displays which components and applications are
using the most battery power.

Battery percentage on status bar — Checkmark to display the battery level
percentage on the Status Bar next to the battery icon.

BATTERY SAVER

Tap the Battery saver switch to toggle it On or Off. Tap Battery saver to access the
following settings:

Battery saver — Sets the battery charge percent level that will automatically turn on
Battery saver. Choose from Immediately, 5% battery and 15% battery.

Game optimizer —Adjust video quality in games to save battery.

< Memory >
Display the average memory use.

< Smart cleaning >

Display the space in use and free in your phone. Tap I at the top right corner of the
screen to set notification interval and idle time period.

< Apps >

View and manage your applications.

< Default message app >

Set Messaging or Hangouts as default app.

< Backup & reset >

Change the settings for managing your settings and data.

Back up my data — Set to backup your settings and application data to the Google
server.

Backup account — Set to backup your account.

Automatic restore — Set to restore your settings and application data when the
applications are reinstalled on your device.

Network settings reset — This will reset all network settings, including Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth.

Factory data reset — Reset your settings to the factory default values and delete all
your data. If you reset the phone this way, you are prompted to re-enter the same
information as when you first started Android.

< About phone >
View legal information and check your phone status and software version.

PC software (LG PC Suite)

"LG PC Suite" PC software is a program that helps you connect your device to a PC via
a USB cable and Wi-Fi. Once connected, you can use the functions of your device from
your PC.

With your "LG PC Suite" PC Software, You Can...

- Manage and play your media contents (music, video, photos) on your PC.

- Send multimedia contents to your device.

- Synchronizes data (calendar, contacts, bookmarks) in your device and PC.

- Backup the applications in your device.

- Update the softwares in your device.

- Play multimedia contents of your PC from your device.

- Backup and create and edit the memos in your device

NOTE: You can use the Help menu from the application to find out how to
use your "LG PC Suite" PC software.

Installing "LG PC Suite" PC Software

"LG PC Suite" PC software can be downloaded from the webpage of LG.

1 Go to WWW.Ig.com and select a country of your choice.

2 Go to Support > MOBILE SUPPORT > Mobile Phones > Select the Model
or
Go to Support > Mobile > Select the Model.

3 Click PC SYNC from DOWNLOAD and click DOWNLOAD to download "LG PC
Suite" PC software.

System Requirements for "LG PC Suite" PC software

- OS: Windows XP (Service pack 3) 32bit, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8

- CPU:1 GHz or higher processors

- Memory: 512 MB or higher RAMs

- Graphic card: 1024 x 768 resolution, 32 bit colour or higher

- HDD: 500 MB or more free hard disk space (More free hard disk space may be
needed depending on the volume of data stored.)

- Required software: LG integrated drivers, Windows Media Player 10 or later

NOTE: LG Integrated USB Driver
LG integrated USB driver is required to connect an LG device and PC and
installed automatically when you install "LG PC Suite" PC software application.

Synchronizing your Device to a PC

Data from your device and PC can be synchronized easily with "LG PC Suite"

PC software for your convenience. Contacts, schedules and bookmarks can be

synchronized.

The procedure is as follows:

1 Connect your device to PC. (Use a USB cable orWi-Fi connection.)

2 Slide down the status bar > select Media device (MTP).

3 After connection, run the program and select the device section from the category
on the left side of the screen.

4 Click Synchronize Personal information to select.

5 Select the checkbox of contents to synchronize and click the Sync button.

NOTE: To synchronize your phone with your PC, you need to install LG PC
Suite onto your PC. Please refer to previous pages to install LG PC Suite.

Moving contacts from your Old Device to your New Device

1 Export your contacts as a CSV file from your old device to your PC using a PC sync
program.

2 Install "LG PC Suite" on the PCfirst. Run the program and connect yourAndroid
mobile phone to the PC using a USB cable.

3 On the top menu, select phone > Import/Export contacts > Export to your
phone.

4 A popup window to select the file type and a file to export will appear.

5 On the popup, click the Select a file and Windows Explorer will appear.

6 Select the contacts file to export in Windows Explorer and click the Open.

7 Click Export.

8 A Field mapping popup to link the contacts in your device and new contacts data
will appear.

9 If there is a conflict between the data in your PC contacts and device contacts,
make the necessary selections or modifications in LG PC Suite.

10 Click OK.

Phone software update

Phone software update

LG Mobile phone software update from the Internet

For more information about using this function, please visit http://WWW.Ig.com/common/
index.jsp 9 select your country and language.

This feature allows you to conveniently update the firmware on your phone to a newer
version from the Internet without needing to visit a service centre. This feature will only
be available if and when LG makes a newer firmware version available for your device.
Because the mobile phone firmware update requires the user‘s full attention for the
duration of the update process, please make sure you check all instructions and notes
that appear at each step before proceeding. Please note that removing the USB data
cable during the upgrade may seriously damage your mobile phone.

NOTE: LG reserves the right to make firmware updates available only for
selected models at its own discretion and does not guarantee the availability
of the newer version of the firmware for all handset models.

LG Mobile Phone software update via Over-the-Air (OTA)

This feature allows you to conveniently update your phone‘s software to a newer
version via OTA, without connecting using a USB data cable. This feature will only be
available if and when LG makes a newer firmware version available for your device.
You should first check the software version on your mobile phone: Settings > General
tab > About phone > Update Center > Software Update > Check now for update.

NOTE: Your personal data from internal phone storageiincluding

information about your Google account and any other accounts, your system/
application data and settings, any downloaded applications and your DRM
licenceimight be lost in the process of updating your phone's software.
Therefore, LG recommends that you backup your personal data before
updating your phone's software. LG does not take responsibility for any loss
of personal data.

NOTE: This feature depends on your network service provider, region and
country.

About this user guide

About this user guide

- Before using your device, please carefully read this manual. This will ensure that you
use your phone safely and correctly.

- Some of the images and screenshots provided in this guide may appear differently on
your phone.

- Your content may differ from the final product, or from software supplied by service
providers or carriers, This content may be subject to change without prior notice. For
the latest version of this manual, please visit the LG website at WWW.Ig.com.

- Your phone‘s applications and their functions may vary by country, region, or
hardware specifications. LG cannot be held liable for any performance issues resulting
from the use of applications developed by providers other than LG.

- LG cannot be held liable for performance or incompatibility issues resulting from
edited registry settings being edited or operating system software being modified. Any
attempt to customize your operating system may cause the device or its applications
to not work as they should.

- Software, audio, wallpaper, images, and other media supplied with your device are
licensed for limited use. If you extract and use these materials for commercial or
other purposes is, you may be infringing copyright laws. As a user, you are fully are
entirely responsible for the illegal use of media.

- Additional charges may be applied for data services, such as messaging, uploading
and downloading, auto-syncing, or using location services. To avoid additional
charges, select a data plan to is suitable for your needs. Contact your service provider
to obtain additional details.

100

Trademarks

- LG and the LG logo are registered trademarks of LG Electronics.

- Bluetooth® is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG, Inc. worldwide.

- Wi-Fi® and the Wi-Fi logo are registered trademarks of the Wi-Fi Alliance.

- All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

DivX HD 9.3““-

This DivX Certified® device has passed rigorous testing to ensure it plays DivX® video.
To play purchased DivX movies, first register your device at vod.divx.com. Find your
registration code in the DivX VOD section of your device setup menu.

DivX Certified® to play DivX® video up to HD 720p, including premium content.
DivX®, DivX Certified® and associated logos are trademarks of DivX, LLC and are
used under license.

Dolby Digital Plus [I] BEIIR‘ELUS

Manufactured under license from Dolby Laboratories. Dolby, Dolby Digital Plus,
and the double-D symbol are trademarks of Dolby Laboratories.

Open Source Software Notice Information

To obtain the source code under GPL, LGPL, MPL, and other open source

licenses, that is contained in this product, please visit http://opensource.lge.com.

In addition to the source code, all referred license terms, warranty disclaimers and

copyright notices are available for download.

LG Electronics will also provide open source code to you on CDPROM for a

charge covering the cost of performing such distribution (such as the cost of

media, shipping, and handling) upon email request to opensource@lge.com.

This offer is valid for three (3) years from the date on which you purchased the

product. _
101

Accessories

These accessories are available for use with the your phone. (Items described below
may be optional.)

Travel adaptor Stereo headset

Quick Start Guide Data cable

Battery ;

 

 

NOTE:

. Always use genuine LG accessories.

. Failure to do this may void your warranty.
. Accessories may vary in different regions.

102

Troubleshooting

This chapter lists some problems you might encounter when using your phone. Some

problems require you to call your service provider, but most are easy to fix yourself.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Message Possible causes Possible corrective measures
There is no
MicroeSlM MICIO’SIM card Make sure that the MicroeSlM card is
In the phone .
card error . . . correctly Inserted.
or It Is Inserted
incorrectly.
Signal is weak or Move toward a window or into
you are outside the an open area. Check the network
N 0 network carrier network. operator coverage map.
Bonnecthon/ Check whether the MicroeSlM card
mgpg: O erator a lied is more than 6~12 months old. If so,
W p . pp change your MicroeSlM card at your
new servrces. . ,
network prOVIder s nearest branch.
Contact your service provider.
To change a
security code,
you will need
to confirm the
Codes do new code by If you forget the code, contact your
not match rerentering it. service provider.
The two codes
you have entered
do not match.

 

 

108

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Message Possible causes Possible corrective measures
No Not supported by
applications serVIce pIQVIdeI Contact your service provider.
can be set or regIstratIon
requIred.
Dialling error New network not authorised.
Calls not 233’ IIrIIsIfeIEtjeiIII/I Check for new restrictions.
available I '
Preepaid charge Contact service provider or reset limit
limit reached. with PIN2.
On/Off key Press the On/Off key for at least two
Phone pressed too briefly. seconds.
cannot be
switched on Battery is not Charge battery. Check the charging
charged. indicator on the display.

 

104

 

 

Message

Possible causes

Possible corrective measures

 

Battery is not

Charge battery.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

charged.
OUISIde . Make sure phone is charging at a
temperature I8 I00 normal tem erature
hot or cold. p '
Charging Check the char er and its connection
error Contact problem to the phone. g
No voltage Plug the charger into a different socket.
Charger defective Replace the charger.
Wrong charger Use only original LG accessories.
Number not ICEEEEIIUSSIIIIIQ Check the Settings menu and turn the
allowed . function off.
Is on.
Impossible
to receive / Memo full Delete some messages from your
send SMS W phone.
& photos
Files do not Unsupported file .
open format Check the supported ﬁle formats.

 

 

 

 

105

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Message Possible causes Possible corrective measures
The screen .
does not If you use a protectIon tape or case,
. . make sure It has not covered the area
turn on ProxImIty sensor . .
around the proxImIty sensor. Make
when I problem sure that the area around the ro ‘m‘
receive a . p XI IIy
sensor Is clean.
call.
Check the settings status in the sound
No sound Vibration mode menu to make sure you are not in
vibration or silent mode.
Hangs up Intermittent Try to perform a software update via
or freezes software problem the website.

 

106

 

FAQ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Category
Sub- Question Answer
Category
You can connect a Bluetooth audio
BT device such as a Stereo/Mono headset
Bluetooth What are the functions or Car Kit. Also, when the FTP server
D . available via Bluetooth is connected to a compatible device,
eVIces you can share content stored on the
storage media.
Eggs?“ Sggwnecte d When a Bluetooth headset is
BT can I listen to m ’ connected, all system sounds are
Bluetooth music throu h y played over the headset. As a result,
Headset g . you will not be able to listen to music
my 3.5 mm WIred .
headphones? through your WIred headphones.
Data How can I backu The Contacts data can be
Contacts Contacts? p synchronized between your phone and
Backup ' GmailTM.
Data IS I possible IO set up Onl twoewa s nchronization is
. . oneeway sync with Y y y
Synchronization G m all? avaIlable.
I ‘t ‘bl t The Inbox is automatically
Data 5 IncIEIOrSSIIzeaaﬁemail synchronized. You can view other
Synchronization fd/lders7 folders by tapping the Menu Key“
' and select Folders to choose a folder.
GoogleTM Do I have to log into . .
Service Gmail whenever I want Once you have logged Into GmaIl, no
. . need to log Into GmaIl agaIn.
GmaIl Login to access GmaIl?

 

107

 

Category

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sub- Question Answer
Category
GoogleTM
Service Is it possible to filter No, email filtering is not supported via
Google emails? the phone.
Account
Phone What happens when
Function I execute another Your email will automatically be saved
E ‘l application while as a draft.
maI writing an email?
Phone Is there a file size
. limitation for when I . . . . . .
:uncItIon want to use MP3 file There Is no ﬁle sIze lImItatIon.

Ing one as ring tone?

Phone My phone does not
Function dIsplay the tIme Of You will only be able to see the times
M receIpt for messages for messa es received the same da

$88898 older than 24 hrs. How g y.

me can I change this?

Phone EngtﬁioefiIZII/ni IgIgIﬁIaII Any application that is available at Play
Function application 0% my StoreTM and is compatible with the
NaVIgatIon phone? hardware can be Installed and used.

Phone I: Ecﬁﬁgigfﬁ Gmail and MS Exchange server
Function cIontacts from all m (company email server) contacts can

Synchronisation y be synchronized.

email accounts?

 

108

 

Category

 

 

Sub- Question Answer
Category
If you transferred a contact with the W
& P functions saved into the number,
you will not be able to use those
Ph features. You will need to reesave each
F ngiIgn Is it possible to save a number.
u . ' contact with Wait and How to save with Wait and Pause:
W8“ and Pause in the numbers? 1 . From the Home screen, tap the
Pause .
Phone Icon I.
2. Dial the number, then tap the Menu
Key I.
3. Tap Add 2-sec pause or Add wait.
Phone You are able to set the phone to
. What are the phone‘s require that an Unlock Pattern be
Function . .
Security securIty functIons? entered before the phone can be

accessed or used.

 

109

 

Category
Sub-
Category

Phone
Function
Unlock
Pattern

Question

How do I create the
Unlock Pattern?

Answer

. From the Home screen, tap and
hold the Recent Key El.

. Tap System settings > Display tab

> Lock screen.

Tap Select screen lock > Pattern.

The first time you do this, a short

tutorial about creating an Unlock

Pattern will appear.

. Set up by drawing your pattern
once, and once again for
confirmation.

Precautions to take when using the

pattern look.

It is very important to remember the

unlock pattern you set. You will not

be able to access your phone if you
use an incorrect pattern five times.

You have five chances to enter your

unlock pattern, PIN or password. If you

have used all 5 opportunities, you can
try again after 30 seconds. (Or, if you
preset the backup PIN, you can use
the backup PIN code to unlock the
pattern.)

[\3

.03

4;

 

110

 

Category

 

 

 

 

Sub- Question Answer

Category
IVS“breegoracesroggstegzgo I.

Phone Iforget the unlock VIII: 9;? IbutI/ ‘IIdt gt th U
Function pattern and I didn‘t on eIp oIIne 5 IaIe IO erIIherf e t

Unlock create my Google correc pa ern Imes, ap e orgo

pattern button. You are then requIred

Pattern account on the . .

to log In WIth your Google account to
phone?
unlock your phone.

Phone .

. WIll I know when my . . . . .
Function memory is full? Yes, you WlII recere a notIfIcatIon.
Memory

The phone has multilingual capabilities.
To change the language:

Phone 1 . From the Home screen, tap and
Function Is it possible to Change hold the Recent Key El and tap
Language my phone's language? System settings.

SUPPOO 2. Tap General tab > Language &

keyboard > Language.
3. Tap the desired language.
VPN access configuration is different

Phone How do I set u a for each company. To configure VPN
Function VPN? p access from your phone, you must

VPN ' obtain the details from your company‘s

network administrator.

 

111

 

Category

 

 

 

 

Sub- Question Answer
Category
1. From the Home screen, tap and
Phone My screen turns Off hold the Recent Key El.
Function after only 15 seconds. 2 Ta . .
. p System settings > Display tab.
S t‘ How can I change the 3 T S t' t
creen Ime amount of time for the ' ap creen Imeou ' ,
OUT backlight to turn off? 4. Tap the preferred screen backlIght
timeout time.
When using data, your phone may
default to the WieFi connection (if
. . WieFi connectivity on your phone is
F5223; \r/nVQEIIeVrIIetIIZII/grrfare set to On). However, there will be no
WieFi & both available which notIfIcatIon when your phone sWItches
mobile service will my phone from one IO the other.
To know WieFi data connection is
network use? . . . . .
beIng used, VIew only erFl Icon at
the top of your screen without mobile
network.
Phone . . Yes. Just touch and hold the icon until
Function Is It possIble to remove the dusthn Icon appears at the top
Home an applIcatIon from the and centre of the screen. Then, WIthout
screen Home screen? lIftIng your ﬁnger, drag the Icon to the
trash can.
1. From the Home screen, tap and
Phone I downloaded an hold the Recent Key |:I.
Function applIcatIon and It 2. Tap System settings > General tab
Application causes a lot of errors. > Apps > DOWNLOADED.

How do I remove it?

3. Tap the application, then tap
Uninstall.

 

112

 

Category

 

 

 

 

Sub- Question Answer
Category
Is it possible to charge
Phone my phone using a USB Yes, the phone will be charged by the
Function data cable without USB cable regardless of whether the
Charger installing the necessary necessary drivers are installed or not.
USB driver?
Yes. After saving a music file as a
ringtone, you can use it as your alarm.
Phone 1. Touch and hold a song in a library
Function Can I use music files list. In the menu that opens, tap Set
Al for my alarm? as ringtone > Phone ringtone or
arm Contact ringtone.
2. In the alarm clock setting screen,
select the song as a ringtone.
Phone \aI/IIIdIIbrI: glam IIego off
Fiogrtriron if the phone is turned No, the Is not supported.
off?
Phone If my ringer volume is .
. . Your alarm Is programmed to be
Function SQI IO Off OI VIbrate, audible even in these scenarios.
Alarm WlII I hear my alarm?

 

118

