Polar Soft Strap
Polar H1 Heart Rate Sensor
Polar H2 Heart Rate Sensor
User Manual

A1
A2
B1

B2
B3

B4

ENGLISH
This user manual contains instructions for Polar
Soft strap, and Polar H1 and H2 heart rate
sensors. The model of your heart rate sensor is
printed on the connector.
The latest version of this user manual can be
downloaded at www.polar.com/support. For
video tutorials, go to
www.polar.com/support/video_tutorials.
Please follow the pictures on the front and back
covers.

Heart Rate Sensor Parts
1.

2.

The plastic electrode areas on the reverse
side of the strap detect heart rate. Picture
A1.
The connector sends the heart rate signal
to the training computer. Picture A2.

Polar heart rate sensors enable training in a
group without interference from other heart rate
sensors.

Heart rate sensors with Polar specific
magnetic data transmission technology, e.g.
Polar H1 and H2, can be used with compatible
gym equipment.

Wear the Heart Rate Sensor
1.
2.
3.

4.

Moisten the electrode areas of the strap.
Picture B1.
Attach the connector to the strap. Picture
B2.
Tie the strap around your chest, just below
the chest muscles, and attach the hook to
the other end of the strap. Picture B3.
Adjust the strap length to fit tightly but
comfortably.

1

5.

Check that the moist electrode areas are
firmly against your skin and that the Polar
logo of the connector is in a central and
upright position. Picture B4.

Detach the connector from the strap and rinse
the strap under running water after every use.
Sweat and moisture may keep the electrodes
wet and the heart rate sensor activated. This
will reduce the battery life.
See detailed washing instructions in the Caring
for Your Heart Rate Sensor section.

Using a New Heart Rate Sensor
When you purchase a new Polar H2 heart rate
sensor, it has to be paired with the training
computer in order to measure your heart rate.
See your Polar training computer's user manual
for instructions on how to take the heart rate
sensor into use.

Using Your Heart Rate Sensor in Water
Polar H1 and Polar H2 heart rate sensors can
be used in water activities with training
computers that use magnetic data transmission.
Please notice that sea and pool water are very
conductive, and electrodes may short-circuit,
preventing ECG signals from being detected by
the heart rate sensor.
When using a bathing suit, the best
performance is achieved by wearing the heart
rate sensor underneath it.

Caring for Your Heart Rate Sensor
The heart rate sensor is a high-tech instrument
that should be handled with care. Follow the
caring instructions to ensure reliable
measurement and to maximize the life span of
the heart rate sensor. The following instructions
will help you fulfill guarantee obligations.

2

ENGLISH

Connector: Detach the connector from the strap
after every use and dry the connector with a soft
towel. Clean the connector with a mild soap and
water solution when needed. Never use alcohol
or any abrasive material (eg. steel wool or
cleaning chemicals).

Strap: Rinse the strap under running water after
every use and hang to dry. Clean the strap
gently with a mild soap and water solution when
needed. Do not use moisturizing soaps, because
they can leave residue on the strap. Do not
soak, iron, dry clean or bleach the strap. Do not
stretch the strap or bend the electrode areas
sharply.

Dry and store the strap and the connector
separately, to maximize the heart rate sensor
battery lifetime. Keep the heart rate sensor in
a cool and dry place. Do not store the heart rate
sensor wet in non-breathing material, such as a
sports bag, to prevent snap oxidation. Do not
expose the heart rate sensor to direct sunlight
for extended periods.

Check the label on your strap to see if it is
machine washable. Never put the strap or the
connector in a dryer!

Service
During the two-year guarantee/warranty period
we recommend that you have service, other than
battery replacement, done by an authorized
Polar Service Center only. The warranty does not
cover damage or consequential damage caused
by service not authorized by Polar Electro. For
contact information and all Polar Service Center
addresses, visit www.polar.com/support and
country specific websites.

ENGLISH

3

Changing Battery
All connectors have user changeable batteries.
To change the battery yourself, follow the
instructions below, and see the markings on the
connector and pictures on the back cover of this
user manual.
1.
2.

3.

4.

Lever the battery cover open by using the
clip on the strap. Picture C1.
Remove the old battery from the battery
cover with a suitable sized small ridgid
stick or bar, such as a toothpick. A
non-metal tool is preferable. Be careful not
to damage the battery cover. Picture C2.
Insert a new battery (CR 2025) inside the
cover with the negative (-) side facing up.
Picture C3.
Align the ledge on the battery cover with
the slot on the connector and press the
battery cover back into place. You should
hear a snap. Picture C4.

When changing the battery, make sure the
sealing ring is not damaged, in which case you
should replace it with a new one to ensure the
water resistance of the connector.
You can purchase the sealing ring/battery kits at
well-equipped Polar retailers and authorized
Polar Services. In the USA and Canada, the
additional sealing rings are available at
authorized Polar Service Centers. In the USA
the sealing ring/battery kits are also available at
www.shoppolar.com.

Keep batteries away from children. If
swallowed, contact a doctor immediately.
Batteries should be properly disposed of
according to local regulations.
Caution: Risk of explosion if battery is replaced
by an incorrect type. Dispose of batteries
according to the instructions.

4

ENGLISH

Precautions
For allergy information, see the listed materials
in Technical Specifications. Avoid skin
reactions by wearing the heart rate sensor over a
shirt, moistened under the electrodes.

The combined impact of moisture and intense
abrasion may cause a black color to come off
the heart rate sensor’s surface, possibly
staining light-colored clothes. If you use
perfume or insect repellent on your skin, you
must ensure that it does not come into
contact with the heart rate sensor.

Technical Specifications
Battery type
Battery sealing ring
Polar H1 battery life
Polar H2 battery life
Operating
temperature
Connector material
Strap material

CR 2025
O-ring 20.0 x 0.90
Material Silicone
1500 h
800 h
14 °F to 122 °F / -10
°C to +50 °C
ABS
38% Polyamide, 29%
Polyurethane, 20%
Elastane, 13%
Polyester

The Polar heart rate sensors apply the following
patented technology, among others:
• OwnCode® coded transmission

Limited International Polar Guarantee
• This guarantee does not affect the consumer’s
statutory rights under applicable national or state
laws in force, or the consumer’s rights against the
dealer arising from their sales/purchase contract.
• This limited Polar international guarantee is issued
by Polar Electro Inc. for consumers who have
purchased this product in the USA or Canada. This
limited Polar international guarantee is issued by
Polar Electro Oy for consumers who have purchased
this product in other countries.

ENGLISH

5

•

Polar Electro Oy/Polar Electro Inc. guarantees the
original consumer/purchaser of this device that the
product will be free from defects in material or
workmanship for two (2) years from the date of
purchase.

•

The receipt of the original purchase is your proof
of purchase!

•

The guarantee does not cover the battery, normal
wear and tear, damage due to misuse, abuse,
accidents or non-compliance with the precautions;
improper maintenance, commercial use, cracked,
broken or scratched cases/displays, armband,
elastic strap and Polar apparel.
The guarantee does not cover any damage/s, losses,
costs or expenses, direct, indirect or incidental,
consequential or special, arising out of, or related to
the product.
Items purchased second hand are not covered by
the two (2) year warranty, unless otherwise
stipulated by local law.
During the guarantee period, the product will be
either repaired or replaced at any of the authorized
Polar Service Centers regardless of the country of
purchase.

•

•

•

Guarantee with respect to any product will be limited to
countries where the product has been initially
marketed.

This product is compliant with the Directives
2014/53/EU and 2011/65/EU. The relevant Declaration
of Conformity and other regulatory information for each
product are available at
www.polar.com/en/regulatory_information.

Compliance Statement
Canada
Polar Electro Oy has not approved any changes or
modifications to this device by the user. Any changes or
modifications could void the user’s authority to operate
the equipment.

6

ENGLISH

Polar Electro Oy n’a approué aucune modification
apportée à l’appareil par l’utilisateur, quelle qu’en soit
la nature. Tout changement ou toute modification
peuvent annuler le droit d’utilisation de l’appareil par
l’utilisateur.

Industry Canada (IC) regulatory information
Under Industry Canada regulations, this radio
transmitter may only operate using an antenna of a type
and maximum (or lesser) gain approved for the
transmitter by Industry Canada. To reduce potential
radio interference to other users, the antenna type and
its gain should be so chosen that the equivalent
isotropically radiated power (e.i.r.p.) is not more than
that necessary for successful communication.
This device complies with Industry Canada
licence-exempt RSS standard(s). Operation is subject
to the following two conditions: (1) this device may not
cause interference, and (2) this device must accept any
interference, including interference that may cause
undesired operation of the device.

Avis de conformité à la réglementation d’Industrie
Canada
Conformément à la réglementation d'Industrie Canada,
le présent émetteur radio peut fonctionner avec une
antenne d'un type et d'un gain maximal (ou inférieur)
approuvé pour l'émetteur par Industrie Canada. Dans le
but de réduire les risques de brouillage radioélectrique
à l'intention des autres utilisateurs, il faut choisir le
type d'antenne et son gain de sorte que la puissance
isotrope rayonnée équivalente (p.i.r.e.) ne dépasse pas
l'intensité nécessaire à l'établissement d'une
communication satisfaisante.
Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d'Industrie
Canada applicables aux appareils radio exempts de
licence. L'exploitation est autorisée aux deux conditions
suivantes : (1) l'appareil ne doit pas produire de
brouillage, et (2) l'utilisateur de l'appareil doit accepter
tout brouillage radioélectrique subi, même si le
brouillage est susceptible d'en compromettre le
fonctionnement.

ENGLISH

7

Class B digital device notice
This Class B digital apparatus complies with Canadian
ICES-003, RSS-Gen and RSS-210.
Cet appareil numérique de la classe B est conforme à
la norme NMB-003, CNR-Gen et CNR-210 du Canada.

USA
Polar Electro Oy has not approved any changes or
modifications to this device by the user. Any changes or
modifications could void the user’s authority to operate
the equipment.

FCC regulatory information
This device complies with part 15 of the FCC rules.
Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1)
This device may not cause harmful interference, and
(2) This device must accept any interference received,
including interference that may cause undesired
operation.

Note: This equipment has been tested and found to
comply with the limits for a Class B digital device,
pursuant to part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are
designed to provide reasonable protection against
harmful interference in a residential installation. This
equipment generates, uses and can radiate radio
frequency energy and, if not installed and used in
accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful
interference to radio communications. However, there
is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a
particular installation.
If this equipment does cause harmful interference to
radio or television reception, which can be determined
by turning the equipment off and on, the user is
encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or
more of the following measures:

1.
2.
3.

8

Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
Increase the separation between the equipment
and receiver.
Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit
different from that to which the receiver is
connected.

ENGLISH

4.

Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/ TV
technician for help.

This product emits radio frequency energy, but the
radiated output power of this device is far below the
FCC radio frequency exposure limits. This equipment
complies with FCC RF radiation exposure limits forth
for an uncontrolled environment. Nevertheless, the
device should be used in such a manner that the
potential for human contact with the antenna during
normal operation is minimized.

This crossed out wheeled bin marking shows that Polar
products are electronic devices and are in the scope of
Directive 2012/19/EU of the European Parliament and
of the Council on waste electrical and electronic
equipment (WEEE) and batteries and accumulators
used in products are in the scope of Directive
2006/66/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 6 September 2006 on batteries and
accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators.
These products and batteries/accumulators inside Polar
products should thus be disposed of separately in EU
countries.

Copyright © 2013 Polar Electro Oy, FI-90440
KEMPELE.
Polar Electro Oy is a ISO 9001:2008 certified
company.
All rights reserved. No part of this manual may be used
or reproduced in any form or by any means without
prior written permission of Polar Electro Oy. The names
and logos marked with a ® symbol in this user's
manual or in the package of this product are registered
trademarks of Polar Electro Oy.

ENGLISH

9

Disclaimer
The material in this manual is for informational
purposes only. The products it describes are subject to
change without prior notice, due to the manufacturer’s
continuous development program.
Polar Electro Inc. / Polar Electro Oy makes no
representations or warranties with respect to this
manual or with respect to the products described
herein.
Polar Electro Inc. / Polar Electro Oy shall not be liable
for any damages, losses, costs or expenses, direct,
indirect or incidental, consequential or special, arising
out of, or related to the use of this material or the
products described herein.
Polar H1 and H2 heart rate sensors are covered by the
following patent documents: FI23471, US
D492999SS, EU0046107-002, EU0046107-003.
Polar H1 and H2 are also covered by the following
patent documents: FI96380, EP0665947,
US5611346, JP3568954, FI115084, EP1543769,
US7418237. Other patents pending.
www.polar.com

10

ENGLISH

C1

C2

C3

C4

Manufactured by
Polar Electro Oy
Professorintie 5
FIN-90440 KEMPELE
Tel +358 8 5202 100
Fax +358 8 5202 300
www.polar.com