SM-G900F

User Manual

English (EU). 03/2014. Rev.1.0

www.samsung.com

Table of Contents
Read me first

39	 Using the power saving feature
41	 Accessing help information

Getting started

Personalising

8	 Device layout
10	Buttons
11	 Package contents
12	 Installing the SIM or USIM card and
battery
15	 Charging the battery
18	 Inserting a memory card
20	 Turning the device on and off
20	 Holding the device
21	 Locking and unlocking the device

42	
42	
45	
46	
46	
47	
47	

Switching to easy mode
Managing the Home and Apps screens
Changing the screen lock method
Setting wallpaper
Changing ringtones
Setting up accounts
Moving contacts from other devices to
your device

Network connectivity
Basics
22	
25	
26	
30	
34	
34	
36	

50	
50	
52	
52	
53	

Using the touch screen
Indicator icons
Notifications and quick setting panels
Home and Apps screens
Opening apps
Installing or uninstalling apps
Entering text

Connecting to a mobile network
Connecting to a Wi-Fi network
Using Download booster
Using Smart network switch
Tethering devices and using mobile
hotspots

Motions & usability features
55	 Control motions
59	 Air view
59	 Multi Window
64	Toolbox
2

Table of Contents

Gallery

65	 One-handed operation
66	 Increasing touch screen sensitivity

99	
101	
103	
103	
104	

Phone
67	 Making calls
70	 Receiving calls
71	 During a call

Viewing content on the device
Modifying content on the device
Accessing additional options
Tagging faces
Using Tag buddy

Internet & SNS
73	 Adding contacts
74	 Managing contacts

105	Internet
106	Chrome
107	Hangouts
107	ChatON

Messages & email

S Health

Contacts

77	Messages
80	Email
82	 Google Mail

109	
110	
111	
112	
113	
115	
118	
120	
121	

Camera
84	
86	
86	
88	
88	
89	
91	
92	
94	
94	
95	
96	

Taking photos or videos
Using the HDR (Rich tone) effect
Using selective focus mode
Launching Camera on the locked
screen
Using the shooting mode
Using shot & more mode
Using dual camera mode
Using virtual tour mode
Applying filter effects
Using the zoom feature
Using remote viewfinder mode
Changing Camera settings

About S Health
Starting S Health
Customising the S Health main screen
Using S Health menus
Measuring steps taken
Using the Exercise mate
Recording food intake
Using the additional menus
Configuring settings for S Health

Voice features
123	
125	
127	
128	

3

S Voice
Voice Recorder
Voice Search
Car mode

Table of Contents

Multimedia

166	Magnifier
167	Maps
167	Memo
168	 My Files
170	Torch

136	Music
139	Video
141	YouTube
142	Flipboard
142	Google+
142	Photos
143	 Play Games
143	 Play Music
143	 Play Newsstand

Connecting with other
devices
171	NFC
173	Bluetooth
176	 S Beam
177	 Quick connect
181	 Smart Remote
184	 Screen mirroring
186	 Using the mobile printing feature

Security
144	 Finger Scanner
148	 Private mode

Safety

Device & data manager

150	 Emergency mode
152	 Sending help messages
153	 Severe weather notification (Geo
News)

187	 Upgrading the device
188	 Transferring files between the device
and a computer
189	 Backing up and restoring data
190	 Performing a data reset

Utilities
155	 S Finder
156	 S Planner
159	Calculator
159	Clock
161	Drive
161	Dropbox
162	Google
163	 Kids Mode

Settings
191	 About Settings
191	 QUICK SETTINGS
191	 NETWORK CONNECTIONS
196	 CONNECT AND SHARE
197	 SOUND AND DISPLAY
201	PERSONALISATION

4

Table of Contents

Troubleshooting

203	MOTION
204	 USER AND BACKUP
205	SYSTEM
212	APPLICATIONS
219	 Google Settings

Accessibility
220	Accessibility
221	 Using the Home button to open
accessibility menus
221	TalkBack
233	 Changing the font size
233	 Magnifying the screen
233	 Setting notification reminders
234	 Reversing the display colours
234	 Colour adjustment
235	 Setting flash notification
235	 Turning off all sounds
235	 Customising caption settings
236	 Adjusting the sound balance
236	 Using mono audio
236	 Using baby crying detector
237	 Using auto haptic
237	 Using the assistive menus
239	 Turning on the screen with the air
gesture feature
239	 Using the smart scroll feature
240	 Setting tap and hold delay options
240	 Using interaction control mode
241	 Answering or ending calls
241	 Using single tap mode
241	 Configuring accessibility settings
243	 Using other useful features

5

Read me first
This device provides mobile communication and media services using Samsung’s latest
standards and technological expertise. This user manual and the information available at
www.samsung.com contain details about the device’s functions and features.
• 	Please read this manual before using the device to ensure safe and proper use.
• 	Descriptions are based on the device’s default settings.
• 	Some content may differ from your device depending on the region, service provider, or
device’s software.
• 	Content (high quality content) that requires high CPU and RAM usage will affect the
overall performance of the device. Apps related to the content may not work properly
depending on the device’s specifications and the environment that it is used in.
• 	Samsung is not liable for performance issues caused by apps supplied by providers other
than Samsung.
• 	Samsung is not liable for performance issues or incompatibilities caused by edited
registry settings or modified operating system software. Attempting to customise the
operating system may cause the device or apps to work improperly.
• 	Software, sound sources, wallpapers, images, and other media provided with this device
are licensed for limited use. Extracting and using these materials for commercial or other
purposes is an infringement of copyright laws. Users are entirely responsible for illegal
use of media.
• 	You may incur additional charges for data services, such as messaging, uploading and
downloading, auto-syncing, or using location services. To avoid additional charges, select
an appropriate data tariff plan. For details, contact your service provider.
• 	Default apps that come with the device are subject to updates and may no longer be
supported without prior notice. If you have questions about an app provided with
the device, contact a Samsung Service Centre. For user-installed apps, contact service
providers.
• 	Modifying the device’s operating system or installing softwares from unofficial sources
may result in device malfunctions and data corruption or loss. These actions are violations
of your Samsung licence agreement and will void your warranty.

6

﻿

Instructional icons
Warning: situations that could cause injury to yourself or others
Caution: situations that could cause damage to your device or other equipment
Note: notes, usage tips, or additional information

7

Getting started
Device layout
Infrared LED

Proximity/Light/Gesture
sensor

Notification light
Front camera

Earpiece

Power button
Touch screen

Home button

Back button

Recent apps button
Microphone

Multipurpose jack

Headset jack

Microphone for
speakerphone

GPS antenna
Rear camera

Volume button

Flash
Back cover
NFC antenna (on the
battery)
Speaker

Main antenna

8

Getting started
The microphone at the top of the device is active only when you use the speakerphone or
take videos.
• 	Do not cover the antenna area with your hands or other objects. This may cause
connectivity problems or drain the battery.
• 	Do not use a screen protector. This causes sensor malfunctions.

Maintaining water and dust resistance
The device may be damaged if water or dust enters the device. Follow these tips carefully to
prevent damage to the device and to maintain the water- and dust-resistant performance of
the device.
• 	Do not immerse the device in water deeper than 1 m and keep it submerged for more
than 30 minutes.
• 	Ensure that the back and multipurpose jack covers are tightly closed. Otherwise, they
may not provide protection from water and dust.
• 	Do not immerse the device in water for extended periods.
• 	Do not expose the device to water moving with force, such as ocean waves or waterfalls.
• 	Do not open the device’s covers when the device is in water or in very humid places, such
as swimming pools or bathrooms.
• 	Do not open the back cover using wet hands or when the device is wet.
• 	The rubber seal fitted to the back cover is an important component of the device. Take
care when opening and closing the back cover to avoid damaging the rubber seal. Also,
ensure that the rubber seal is free from debris, such as sand or dust to prevent damage to
the device.
• 	Do not detach or remove the multipurpose jack cover from the device.
• 	Do not expose the device to salt water, ionised water, or soapy water.
• 	The back and multipurpose jack covers may be loosened if the device is dropped or
receives an impact. Ensure that all the covers are properly aligned and tightly closed.

9

Getting started
• 	If the device has been immersed in water or the microphone or the speaker is wet,
sound may not be heard clearly during a call. Ensure that the microphone or the speaker
is clean and dry by wiping it with a dry cloth.
• 	If the device gets wet, dry it thoroughly with a clean, soft cloth.
• 	The water-resistant design of the device causes it to vibrate slightly in certain conditions.
Vibrations in these conditions, such as when the volume level is high are normal and do
not affect the device’s performance.
• 	The touch screen and other features may not work properly if the device is used in water
or in other liquids.
• 	Your device has been tested in a controlled environment and certified to be waterand dust-resistant in specific situations (meets requirements of classification IP67 as
described by the international standard IEC 60529 - Degrees of Protection provided
by Enclosures [IP Code]; test conditions: 15 - 35 °C, 86 - 106 kPa, 1 meter, 30 minutes).
Despite this classification, your device is not impervious to water damage in any
situation.

Buttons
Button

Function
• 	Press and hold to turn the device on or off.
Power

• 	Press to lock or unlock the device. The device goes into
lock mode when the touch screen turns off.
• 	Tap to open the list of recent apps.

Recent apps

• 	Tap and hold to access additional options for the current
screen.
• 	Press to unlock the device. The device goes into lock
mode when the touch screen turns off.

Home

• 	Press to return to the Home screen.
• 	Press twice to launch S Voice.
• 	Press and hold to launch Google.

10

Getting started

Button

Function
Back

• 	Tap to return to the previous screen.

Volume

• 	Press to adjust the device volume.

Package contents
Check the product box for the following items:
• 	Device
• 	Battery
• 	Quick start guide
• 	The items supplied with the device and any available accessories may vary
depending on the region or service provider.
• 	The supplied items are designed only for this device and may not be compatible
with other devices.
• 	Appearances and specifications are subject to change without prior notice.
• 	You can purchase additional accessories from your local Samsung retailer. Make
sure they are compatible with the device before purchase.
• 	Use only Samsung-approved accessories. Some accessories, such as docking
devices, may not have the same water- and dust-resistance certification. Before
purchasing accessories, ensure that they are compatible with the device.
• 	Availability of all accessories is subject to change depending entirely on
manufacturing companies. For more information about available accessories, refer
to the Samsung website.

11

Getting started

Installing the SIM or USIM card and battery
Insert the SIM or USIM card provided by the mobile telephone service provider, and the
included battery.
• 	Only microSIM cards work with the device.
• 	Some LTE services may not be available depending on the service provider. For
details about service availability, contact your service provider.

1	 Remove the back cover.

Be careful not to damage your fingernails when you remove the back cover.
Do not bend or twist the back cover excessively. Doing so may damage the cover.

12

Getting started

2	 Insert the SIM or USIM card with the gold-coloured contacts facing downwards.

• 	Do not insert a memory card into the SIM card slot. If a memory card happens to
be lodged in the SIM card slot, take the device to a Samsung Service Centre to
remove the memory card.
• 	Use caution not to lose or let others use the SIM or USIM card. Samsung is not
responsible for any damages or inconveniences caused by lost or stolen cards.

3	 Insert the battery.
2

1

13

Getting started

4	 Replace the back cover.
2

1
Press
Align

• 	Ensure that the back cover is closed tightly.
• 	Use only Samsung-approved back covers and accessories with the device.

Removing the SIM or USIM card and battery

1	 Remove the back cover.
2	 Pull out the battery.

14

Getting started

3	 Press the SIM or USIM card with your finger, and then pull it out.

Charging the battery
Use the charger to charge the battery before using it for the first time. A computer can be also
used to charge the device by connecting them via the USB cable.
Use only Samsung-approved chargers, batteries, and cables. Unapproved chargers or
cables can cause the battery to explode or damage the device.
• 	When the battery power is low, the battery icon appears empty.
• 	If the battery is completely discharged, the device cannot be turned on
immediately when the charger is connected. Allow a depleted battery to charge for
a few minutes before turning on the device.
• 	If you use multiple apps at once, network apps, or apps that need a connection
to another device, the battery will drain quickly. To avoid disconnecting from the
network or losing power during a data transfer, always use these apps after fully
charging the battery.

15

Getting started

1	 Connect the USB cable to the USB power adaptor.
2	 Open the multipurpose jack cover.
3	 When using a USB cable, plug the USB cable into the right side of the multipurpose jack
as shown in the image below.

• 	Connecting the charger improperly may cause serious damage to the device. Any
damage caused by misuse is not covered by the warranty.
• 	Ensure that the back cover and the multipurpose jack cover are closed tightly to
prevent water and dust entering the device. Open or loose covers may allow water
and dust to enter the device and cause damage.
• 	Be careful not to damage or detach the multipurpose jack cover. A damaged or
missing cover can result in water damage to the device.

4	 Plug the USB power adaptor into an electric socket.
• 	The device can be used while it is charging, but it may take longer to fully charge
the battery.
• 	If the device receives an unstable power supply while charging, the touch screen
may not function. If this happens, unplug the charger from the device.
• 	While charging, the device may heat up. This is normal and should not affect the
device’s lifespan or performance. If the battery gets hotter than usual, the charger
may stop charging.
• 	If the device is not charging properly, take the device and the charger to a
Samsung Service Centre.

16

Getting started

5	 After fully charging, disconnect the device from the charger. First unplug the charger
from the device, and then unplug it from the electric socket.

Do not remove the battery before removing the charger. This may damage the
device.
To save energy, unplug the charger when not in use. The charger does not have a
power switch, so you must unplug the charger from the electric socket when not in
use to avoid wasting power. The charger should remain close to the electric socket
and easily accessible while charging.

6	 Close the multipurpose jack cover.

Ensure that the multipurpose jack cover is closed tightly.

Reducing the battery consumption
Your device provides options that help you save battery power. By customising these options
and deactivating features in the background, you can use the device longer between charges:
• 	When you are not using the device, switch to sleep mode by pressing the Power button.
• 	Close unnecessary apps with the task manager.
• 	Deactivate the Bluetooth feature.
• 	Deactivate the Wi-Fi feature.
• 	Deactivate auto-syncing of apps.
• 	Decrease the backlight time.
• 	Decrease the brightness of the display.

17

Getting started

Inserting a memory card
Your device accepts memory cards with maximum capacities of 128 GB. Depending on the
memory card manufacturer and type, some memory cards may not be compatible with your
device.
• 	Some memory cards may not be fully compatible with the device. Using an
incompatible card may damage the device or the memory card, or corrupt the data
stored in it.
• 	Use caution to insert the memory card right-side up.
• 	The device supports the FAT and the exFAT file systems for memory cards. When
inserting a card formatted in a different file system, the device asks to reformat the
memory card.
• 	Frequent writing and erasing of data shortens the lifespan of memory cards.
• 	When inserting a memory card into the device, the memory card’s file directory
appears in the My Files → SD card folder.

1	 Remove the back cover.
2	 Insert a memory card with the gold-coloured contacts facing downwards.

3	 Replace the back cover.

18

Getting started

Removing the memory card
Before removing the memory card, first unmount it for safe removal. On the Home screen, tap
Apps → Settings → Storage → Unmount SD card.

1	 Remove the back cover.
2	 Pull out the memory card.
3	 Replace the back cover.
Do not remove the memory card while the device is transferring or accessing
information. Doing so can cause data to be lost or corrupted or damage to the
memory card or device. Samsung is not responsible for losses that result from the
misuse of damaged memory cards, including the loss of data.

Formatting the memory card
A memory card formatted on a computer may not be compatible with the device. Format the
memory card on the device.
On the Home screen, tap Apps → Settings → Storage → Format SD card → Format SD
card → Erase everything.
Before formatting the memory card, remember to make backup copies of all
important data stored on the device. The manufacturer’s warranty does not cover loss
of data resulting from user actions.

19

Getting started

Turning the device on and off
When turning on the device for the first time, follow the on-screen instructions to set up your
device.
Press and hold the Power button for a few seconds to turn on the device.
To turn off the device, press and hold the Power button, and then tap Power off.

Follow all posted warnings and directions from authorised personnel in areas where
the use of wireless devices is restricted, such as aeroplanes and hospitals.

Holding the device
Do not cover the antenna area with your hands or other objects. This may cause connectivity
problems or drain the battery.

20

Getting started

Locking and unlocking the device
Pressing the Power button turns off the screen and puts the device into lock mode. The
device automatically gets locked if it is not used for a specified period.
To unlock the device, press the Power button or the Home button and flick your finger in any
direction within the unlock screen area.

You can change the unlock code to unlock the device. Refer to ‘Changing the screen lock
method’ for details.

21

Basics
Using the touch screen
• 	Do not allow the touch screen to come into contact with other electrical devices.
Electrostatic discharges can cause the touch screen to malfunction.
• 	To avoid damaging the touch screen, do not tap it with anything sharp or apply
excessive pressure to it with your fingertips.
• 	The device may not recognise touch inputs close to the edges of the screen, which
are outside of the touch input area.
• 	Leaving the touch screen idle for extended periods may result in afterimages
(screen burn-in) or ghosting. Turn off the touch screen when you do not use the
device.
• 	It is recommended to use fingers when you use the touch screen.

Tapping
To open an app, to select a menu item, to press an on-screen button, or to enter a character
using the keyboard on the screen tap it with a finger.

22

Basics

Tapping and holding
Tap and hold an item for more than 2 seconds to access available options.

Dragging
To move an icon or thumbnail, tap and hold it and drag it to the target position.

Double-tapping
Double-tap on a webpage or image to zoom in a part. Double-tap again to return.

23

Basics

Flicking
Flick left or right on the Home screen or the Apps screen to see another panel. Flick up or
down to scroll through a webpage or a list, such as contacts.

Spreading and pinching
Spread two fingers apart on a webpage, map, or image to zoom in a part. Pinch to zoom out.

24

Basics

Indicator icons
The icons displayed on the status bar provide information about the status of the device. The
icons listed in the table below are most common.
The status bar may not appear at the top of the screen in some apps. To display the
status bar, drag down from the top of the screen.
Icon

Meaning
No signal
Signal strength
Roaming (outside of normal service area)
GPRS network connected
EDGE network connected
UMTS network connected
HSDPA network connected
HSPA+ network connected
LTE network connected
Wi-Fi connected
Bluetooth feature activated
GPS activated
Call in progress
Missed call
Air gesture feature activated
Smart screen feature activated
Synced with the web
Connected to computer
No SIM or USIM card
New text or multimedia message
Alarm activated

25

Basics

Icon

Meaning
Mute mode activated
Vibration mode activated
Flight mode activated
Error occurred or caution required
Battery power level

Notifications and quick setting panels
Using the notifications panel
When you receive new notifications, such as messages or missed calls, indicator icons appear
on the status bar. To see more information about the icons, open the notifications panel and
view the details.
To open the notifications panel, drag the status bar downwards.
To close the notifications panel, drag the bar from the bottom of the screen upwards.

26

Basics
You can use the following functions on the notifications panel.
Launch Settings.

Activate or deactivate options.
Tap and hold options to view
more detailed settings.

View all quick setting buttons.

Launch S Finder.

Launch Quick connect.
Clear all notifications.

Adjust the brightness.

Tap a notification and perform
various actions.

Adjusting the brightness
To set the device to adjust the brightness automatically, tick Auto. To manually adjust the
brightness from the automatic level, drag the brightness adjustment bar to the left or right.
When battery power is low, the brightness adjustment bar disappears from the notifications
panel.

27

Basics

Using the quick setting panel
A number of quick setting buttons are available on the notifications panel. To view or access
more quick setting buttons, open the quick setting panel. When you open the quick setting
panel, you can activate or deactivate various features or configure settings.
To open the quick setting panel, drag the status bar downwards with two fingers.
To close the quick setting panel, drag the bar from the bottom of the screen upwards.
To rearrange quick setting buttons on the notifications panel, tap
and then drag the item to another location.

, tap and hold an item,

Use the following options:
• 	Wi-Fi: Activate or deactivate the Wi-Fi feature. Refer to ‘Connecting to a Wi-Fi network’ for
details.
• 	Location: Activate or deactivate the GPS feature.
• 	Sound / Vibration / Mute: Activate or deactivate sound mode and silent mode. You can
set the device to vibrate or mute all sound in silent mode.
• 	Screen rotation: Allow or prevent the interface from rotating when you rotate the device.
Some apps do not allow screen rotation.
• 	Bluetooth: Activate or deactivate the Bluetooth feature.
• 	Mobile data: Activate or deactivate the mobile data connection.

28

Basics
• 	Download booster: Activate or deactivate the download booster feature. Refer to ‘Using
Download booster’ for details.
• 	U.power saving: Activate or deactivate ultra power-saving mode. Refer to ‘Using the
power saving feature’ for details.
• 	Multi window: Set to use Multi Window. Refer to ‘Multi Window’ for details.
• 	Toolbox: Hide or show the toolbox icon. Refer to ‘Toolbox’ for details.
• 	Mobile hotspot: Activate or deactivate the Wi-Fi tethering feature. Refer to ‘Tethering
devices and using mobile hotspots’ for details.
• 	Screen Mirroring: Activate or deactivate the screen mirroring feature. Refer to ‘Screen
mirroring’ for details.
• 	NFC: Activate or deactivate the NFC feature. Refer to ‘NFC’ for details.
• 	Sync: Activate or deactivate auto-syncing of apps.
• 	Smart stay: Activate or deactivate the smart stay feature. When you activate this feature,
the screen stays on as long as you look at it.
• 	Smart pause: Activate or deactivate the smart pause feature. When you activate this
feature, playback pauses when you look away from the screen.
• 	Power saving: Activate or deactivate power-saving mode. Refer to ‘Using the power
saving feature’ for details.
• 	Blocking mode: Activate or deactivate blocking mode. In blocking mode, your device
will block notifications. To select which notifications will be blocked, tap Settings →
Blocking mode.
• 	Flight mode: Activate or deactivate flight mode.
• 	Car mode: Activate or deactivate car mode. Refer to ‘Car mode’ for details.
• 	Private mode: Activate or deactivate private mode. Refer to ‘Private mode’ for details.
• 	Touch sensitivity: Activate or deactivate the touch sensitivity feature. Refer to ‘Increasing
touch screen sensitivity’ for details.

29

Basics

Home and Apps screens
Home screen
The Home screen is the starting point to access all of the device’s features. It displays widgets,
shortcuts to apps, and more. Widgets are small apps that launch specific app functions to
provide information and convenient access on your Home screen.
The Home screen can have multiple panels. To view other panels, scroll left or right. To
customise the Home screen, refer to ‘Managing the Home and Apps screens’ for details.

A widget

An app

A folder
Screen indicators

Favourite apps

30

Basics

Home screen options
Tap and hold an area, or pinch your fingers together on the Home screen to access the
options available on the Home screen.

31

Basics

Using My Magazine
Tap

or scroll right on the Home screen to open My Magazine.

My Magazine displays live social network updates and news that you are interested in.
Access additional
options.

To select the content to be displayed, tap → Settings, and then select the categories that
interest you.
To update the content automatically when My Magazine opens, tap → Settings, and then
tick Auto refresh on opening.
To deactivate My Magazine, on the Home screen, tap and hold an empty area or pinch your
fingers together on the screen. Then, tap Home screen settings and deselect My Magazine.

32

Basics

Apps screen
The Apps screen displays icons for all apps, including any new apps installed.
On the Home screen, tap Apps to open the Apps screen. To view other panels, scroll left or
right, or select a screen indicator at the bottom of the screen. To customise the Apps screen,
refer to ‘Managing the Home and Apps screens’ for details.
Access additional
options.

An app

Screen indicators

33

Basics

Opening apps
On the Home screen or the Apps screen, select an app icon to open it.
To open the list of recently-used apps, tap

and select an app icon to open.

Closing an app
Close apps not in use to save battery power and maintain device performance.
→ , and then tap End next to an app to close it. To close all running apps, tap End
Tap
→ .
all. Alternatively, tap

Installing or uninstalling apps
Samsung Apps
Use this app to purchase and download dedicated Samsung apps.
Tap Samsung Apps on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Installing apps
Browse apps by category or tap

to search for a keyword.

Select an app to view information about it. To download free apps, tap Free. To purchase and
download apps where charges apply, tap the button that shows the app’s price.
By default, the device automatically updates any installed app when a new version is
available. To change the default setting or to update apps manually, tap → Settings
→ Auto update apps, and then select an option.

34

Basics

Play Store
Use this app to purchase and download apps and games that are able to run on the device.
Tap Play Store on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Installing apps
Browse apps by category or tap

to search for a keyword.

Select an app to view information about it. To download free apps, tap INSTALL. To purchase
and download apps where charges apply, tap the price and follow the on-screen instructions.
• 	To install apps that you download from other sources, on the Apps screen, tap
Settings → Security → Unknown sources.
• 	By default, the device automatically updates any installed app when a new version
is available. To change the default setting or to update apps manually, tap →
Settings → Auto-update apps, and then select an option.

Downloading suggested apps
You can view and download dedicated Galaxy device apps.
On the Apps screen, tap → Galaxy Essentials. Or, on the Home screen, tap the GALAXY
Essentials widget or the GALAXY Gifts widget, and then tap next to an app.
To download all apps in the list, tap Download all.

Managing apps
Uninstalling or disabling apps
To disable default apps, on the Apps screen, tap → Uninstall/Disable apps.
apps that you can disable. Select an app and tap Disable.

appears on

To uninstall downloaded apps, on the Apps screen, tap → Downloaded apps → →
Uninstall. Alternatively, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Application manager, select an
app, and then tap Uninstall.

35

Basics

Enabling apps
On the Apps screen, tap → Show disabled apps, select apps, and then tap Done.
Alternatively, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Application manager, scroll to DISABLED,
select an app, and then tap Enable.
• 	Hiding apps: Hide apps in the Apps screen only. You can continue to use hidden
apps.
• 	Disabling apps: Disable selected default apps that cannot be uninstalled from the
device. You cannot use disabled apps.
• 	Uninstalling apps: Uninstall downloaded apps.

Entering text
A keyboard appears automatically when you enter text to send messages, create memos, and
more.
Text entry is not supported in some languages. To enter text, you must change the
input language to one of the supported languages.
Suggested keywords
Set options for the Samsung
keyboard.

Delete a preceding character.

Enter uppercase.
Break to the next line.
Enter punctuation marks.
Enter a space.

Setting input languages
Tap → Select input languages, and then select the languages to use. If you select two or
more languages, you can change the languages by sliding the space key left or right.

36

Basics

Changing the keyboard layout
Tap , select a language under INPUT LANGUAGES, and then select a keyboard layout to
use.
On the 3x4 keyboard, a key has three or four characters. To enter a character, tap
repeatedly the key corresponding to the character.

Using additional keyboard functions
Tap and hold to use the following functions. Other icons may appear instead of the
depending on the last function that was used.

icon

• 	 : Enter text by voice.
Change the language.
Open the keyboard.
Start or pause entering text by
voice.

Ensure that the Wi-Fi or mobile network is connected before using this feature. You
may incur additional charges when using this feature via the mobile network.
• 	

: Switch to handwriting mode.

Switch to the standard keyboard.

This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

37

Basics

• 	 : Add an item from the clipboard.
• 	 : Set options for the keyboard.
• 	 : Enter emoticons.
• 	 : Switch to the floating keyboard. You can move the keyboard to another location by
dragging .

Switch to the standard keyboard.

Copying and pasting

1	 Tap and hold over text.
2	 Drag or to select the desired text, or tap Select all to select all text.
3	 Tap Copy or Cut. The selected text is copied to the clipboard.
4	 Place the cursor where the text is to be inserted and tap → Paste. To paste text that
you have previously copied, tap

→ Clipboard and select the text.

38

Basics

Using the power saving feature
Power saving mode
Save battery power by limiting the device’s functions.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Power saving → Power saving mode, and then drag
the Power saving mode switch to the right. Alternatively, open the quick setting panel and
tap Power saving to activate it.
Select from the following options:
• 	Block background data: Prevent apps that are running in the background from using a
mobile data connection.
• 	Restrict performance: Limit various options, such as turning off the Recent apps and
Back buttons’ backlight.
• 	Greyscale mode: Display colours on the screen as grey tones.

Ultra power saving mode
Use this mode to extend the device’s battery power. In ultra power saving mode the device
performs the following:
• 	Displays colours on the screen as grey tones.
• 	Limits access to default apps and to various other apps that can be selected from a list.
• 	Deactivates the mobile data connection when the screen turns off.
• 	Deactivates the Wi-Fi and Bluetooth features.

39

Basics
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Power saving → Ultra power saving mode, and drag
the Ultra power saving mode switch to the right. Alternatively, open the quick setting panel
and tap U.power saving to activate it.
Access additional options.

Launch Messages.

Launch Phone.

Launch Internet.

Add more apps to use.

Remaining battery power

To add an app on the Home screen, tap

Estimated battery running time

and select an app.

To remove an app from the Home screen, tap → Remove, select an app with
tap OK.

, and then

To change the network connectivity or sound settings, tap → Settings.
To deactivate the ultra power saving feature, tap → Disable ultra power saving mode.
The maximum standby time is the estimated time that the device will maintain a
battery charge. The standby time is the time taken for the battery to fully discharge
if the device is not used. Standby time may vary depending on device settings and
operating conditions.

40

Basics

Accessing help information
To access help information for an app while you are using the app, tap → Help.
To access help information to learn how to use the device and apps, on the Apps screen, tap
Settings → Help.
• 	Some apps may not support this feature.
• 	To use the feature, connect to a Wi-Fi or mobile network.

41

Personalising
Switching to easy mode
Easy mode provides an easier user experience by using a simpler layout and bigger icons on
the Home screen. You can access the most popular apps and frequently-used settings, and
add shortcuts to your favourite contacts.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Easy mode → Easy mode, select apps to apply simpler
layout, and then tap Done.
To return to standard mode, on the Home screen, tap Easy settings → Easy mode →
Standard mode → Done.

Managing shortcuts
To add a shortcut to an app to the Home screen, scroll left, tap

, and then select an app.

To add a shortcut to a contact on the Home screen, scroll right, tap

.

To delete a shortcut from the Home screen, tap → Edit, select an app or contact with

.

Managing the Home and Apps screens
Managing the Home screen
Adding items
Tap and hold an app or a folder from the Apps screen, and then drag it to the Home screen.
To add widgets, on the Home screen, tap and hold an empty area, tap Widgets, tap and hold
a widget, and then drag it to the Home screen.

42

Personalising

Moving and removing an item
Tap and hold an item on the Home screen, and then drag it to a new location.
To move the item to another panel, drag it to the side of the screen.
You can also move frequently-used apps to the shortcuts area at the bottom of the Home
screen.
To remove an item, tap and hold the item. Then, drag it to Remove that appears at the top of
the screen.

Creating a folder

1	 On the Home screen, tap and hold an app, and then drag it to Create folder that appears
at the top of the screen.

2	 Enter a folder name.
3	 Tap , select the apps to move to the folder, and then tap Done.
Managing panels
On the Home screen, tap and hold an empty area to add, move, or remove a panel.
To add a panel, scroll left to the last panel, and then tap

.

To move a panel, tap and hold a panel preview, and then drag it to a new location.
To remove a panel, tap and hold a panel preview, and then drag it to Remove at the top of
the screen.
To set a panel as the main Home screen, tap

.

43

Personalising

Managing the Apps screen
Changing view mode
On the Apps screen, tap → View as and select a sorting method.

Hiding apps
Hide apps that you do not want to see on the Apps screen.
On the Apps screen, tap → Hide apps, select apps, and then tap Done.
To display hidden apps, tap → Show hidden apps, select apps, and then tap Done.

Moving items
On the Apps screen, tap → Edit. Tap and hold an item and drag it to a new location.
To move the item to another panel, drag it to the side of the screen.
To move an item to a new panel, drag it to Create page that appears at the top of the screen.

Creating folders

1	 On the Apps screen, tap

→ Create folder. Alternatively, tap → Edit, tap and hold an
app, and then drag it to Create folder that appears at the top of the screen.

2	 Enter a folder name.
3	 Tap , select the apps to move to the folder, and then tap Done.

44

Personalising

Changing the screen lock method
You can change the way that you lock the screen to prevent others accessing your personal
information.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Lock screen → Screen lock, and then select a screen
lock method. The device requires an unlock code whenever unlocking it.
If the unlock code is forgotten, take the device to a Samsung Service Centre to reset it.

Pattern
Draw a pattern by connecting four dots or more, and then draw the pattern again to verify it.
Set a backup PIN to unlock the screen when you forget the pattern.

Fingerprints
Register your fingerprints to unlock the screen. Refer to ‘Finger Scanner’ for details.

PIN
A PIN consists of numbers only. Enter at least four numbers, and then enter the password
again to verify it.

45

Personalising

Password
A password consists of characters and numbers. Enter at least four characters including
numbers and symbols, and then enter the password again to verify it.

Setting wallpaper
Set an image or photo stored in the device as wallpaper for the Home screen or the locked
screen.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Wallpaper. Alternatively, on the Home screen,

tap and hold an empty area or pinch your fingers together on the screen, and then tap
Wallpapers.

2	 Select a screen to change or apply wallpaper to.
3	 Scroll left or right and select from images displayed at the bottom of the screen.

To select photos taken by the device’s camera or other images, tap More images.

4	 Tap Set wallpaper or Done.

Changing ringtones
Change ringtones for incoming calls and notifications.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Sound.
To set a ringtone for incoming calls, tap Ringtones, select a ringtone, and then tap OK. To use
a song stored on the device or in your account as a ringtone, tap Add.
To set a ringtone for notifications, tap Notifications, select a ringtone, and then tap OK.

46

Personalising

Setting up accounts
Adding accounts
Some apps used on your device require a registered account. Create accounts to have the
best experience with your device.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accounts → Add account and select an account service.
Then, follow the on-screen instructions to complete the account setup.
To sync content with your accounts, select an account and tick items to sync.

Removing accounts
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accounts, select an account service under MY
ACCOUNTS, select the account to remove, and then tap → Remove account.

Moving contacts from other devices to your
device
Moving contacts using Samsung Smart Switch
You can move contacts to your device from other devices and computers using Samsung
Smart Switch.
Samsung Smart Switch is not supported on some devices or computers.

Using Smart Switch Mobile
You can use this app to transfer contacts from one mobile device to another. This feature is
supported when transferring contacts between selected Samsung mobile devices only.

47

Personalising

Before using this feature
Ensure that the Smart Switch Mobile app is installed on the two devices. You can download
the app from Samsung Apps or Play Store.

1	 On the two devices, launch Smart Switch Mobile.
2	 On both devices, read and agree to the terms and conditions, and then tap Confirm.
3	 Bring the devices close together, and then tap Connect on either device.
4	 On the device you are transferring contacts from, tick Contacts and tap Transfer.
5	 On the device to transfer contacts to, tap OK to start transferring contacts from the other
device.

Using Smart Switch with computers
Use this feature to transfer a backup of your contacts from a computer to your device. You can
also transfer contacts from selected manufacturer’s mobile devices to your device.

Before using this feature
Ensure that the Smart Switch for computers is installed on the computer. You can download
the app from the Samsung Smart Switch website (www.samsungsmartswitch.com).

1	 Back up contacts from a previous device to the computer. For details, contact the device’s
manufacturer.

2	 On the computer, launch Smart Switch.
3	 On the computer, read and agree to the terms and conditions, and then click Agree.
4	 Connect your current device to the computer using the USB cable.
5	 On the computer, click the manufacturer of the previous device and follow the on-screen
instructions to transfer contacts to your device.

48

Personalising

Moving contacts using Samsung Kies
Import a backup contacts file from your computer via Samsung Kies to restore contacts
on your device. You can also back up contacts to the computer via Samsung Kies. Refer to
‘Connecting with Samsung Kies’ for details.

49

Network connectivity
Connecting to a mobile network
Connect the device to a mobile network to use the Internet when a Wi-Fi network is not
available.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Data usage, and then tick Mobile data. Alternatively,
open the quick setting panel and tap Mobile data to activate it.

Connecting to a Wi-Fi network
Connect the device to a Wi-Fi network to use the Internet or share media files with other
devices. Refer to ‘Wi-Fi’ for additional options.
• 	Your device uses a non-harmonised frequency and is intended for use in all
European countries. The WLAN can be operated in the EU without restriction
indoors, but cannot be operated outdoors.
• 	Turn off Wi-Fi to save the battery when not in use.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Wi-Fi. Alternatively, open the quick setting panel
and tap and hold Wi-Fi.

2	 Drag the Wi-Fi switch to the right.
3	 Select a network from the list of detected Wi-Fi networks. Networks that require a
password appear with a lock icon.

4	 Tap Connect. After the device connects to a Wi-Fi network, the device will automatically
connect to it any time it is available.

50

Network connectivity

Adding Wi-Fi networks
If the desired network does not appear in the networks list, tap Add Wi-Fi network at the
bottom of the networks list. Enter the network name in Network SSID, select the security
type and enter the password if it is not an open network, and then tap Connect.

Activating Wi-Fi Passpoint
Wi-Fi Passpoint enables the device to search for and connect to a certified Wi-Fi network. You
can use the Passpoint feature to connect to public Wi-Fi networks that support automated
authentication. When you move to a new location it will search for and connect to another
certified Wi-Fi network.
This feature may not be available depending on the region.
Tap → Advanced, and then tick Passpoint.

Forgetting Wi-Fi networks
Any network that has ever been used, including the current network, can be forgotten so the
device will not automatically connect to it. Select the network in the networks list and tap
Forget.

51

Network connectivity

Using Download booster
Use this feature to download large files faster via Wi-Fi and mobile networks simultaneously.
Before using this feature, ensure that the mobile data connection and Wi-Fi features are
activated. A stronger Wi-Fi signal will provide a faster download speed.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Download booster, and then drag the Download
booster switch to the right. Alternatively, open the quick setting panel and tap Download
booster to activate it.
• 	You may incur additional charges when downloading files via a mobile network.
• 	When you download large files, the device may heat up. If the device exceeds a set
temperature, the feature will turn off.
• 	If network signals are unstable, the speed and performance of this feature may be
affected.
• 	If the Wi-Fi and mobile network connections have significantly different data
transfer speeds, the device may use only the fastest connection.
• 	This feature supports Hypertext Transmission Protocol (HTTP) 1.1 only. The feature
cannot be used with other protocols, such as HTTPS or FTP.

Using Smart network switch
Use this feature to maintain a stable network connection when you browse webpages,
download content, and more. Before using this feature, ensure that the mobile data
connection and Wi-Fi features are activated.
You may incur additional charges when using this feature via a mobile network.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Wi-Fi, and then tick Smart network switch. The device
automatically switches from a Wi-Fi network to a mobile network when the current Wi-Fi
network is weak or unstable. When the Wi-Fi network signal becomes strong, the device
switches from the mobile network back to the Wi-Fi network.

52

Network connectivity

Tethering devices and using mobile hotspots
About tethering and mobile hotspots
Use this feature to share the device’s mobile data connection with computers and other
devices if an Internet connection is unavailable. Connections can be made via the Wi-Fi
feature, USB, or the Bluetooth feature.
You may incur additional charges when using this feature.

Using the mobile hotspot
Use your device as a mobile hotspot to share your device’s mobile data connection with other
devices.

Before using this feature
• 	Ensure that the Wi-Fi feature is deactivated.
• 	Ensure that the device’s mobile data connection is activated.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Tethering and mobile hotspot → Mobile hotspot.
2	 Drag the Mobile hotspot switch to the right.
• 	 appears on the status bar. Other devices can find your device on the Wi-Fi networks
list.
• 	To set a password for the hotspot, tap → Configure and select the level of security.
Then, enter a password and tap Save.

3	 On the other device’s screen, search for and select your device from the Wi-Fi networks
list.

53

Network connectivity

Using USB tethering
Share the device’s mobile data connection with a computer via a USB cable.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Tethering and mobile hotspot.
2	 Connect your device to the computer via the USB cable.
3	 Tick USB tethering.
appears on the status bar when the two devices are connected.

4	 On the computer, use your device’s mobile data connection.
Using Bluetooth tethering
Share the device’s mobile data connection with connected computers and other devices via
Bluetooth.

Before using this feature
• 	Ensure that your device is paired with the other device via Bluetooth. Refer to ‘Bluetooth’
for details.
• 	Ensure that the computer that you connect to supports the Bluetooth feature.

1	 On your device, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Tethering and mobile hotspot.
2	 Tick Bluetooth tethering.
3	 On the connected device, open the Bluetooth settings screen, tap → Internet access.
appears on the status bar when the two devices are connected.

4	 On the connected device, use the device’s mobile data connection to access the Internet.
The connection methods may vary depending on the connected devices.

54

Motions & usability features
Control motions
Excessive shaking or impact to the device may result in unintended inputs. Control
motions properly.

Air browse
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Motions and gestures → Air browse, and then drag the
Air browse switch to the right.
Move your hand to the left or right across the sensor to go to the next or previous item.
Alternatively, move your hand up or down across the sensor to go to the next or previous
item.

55

Motions & usability features

Direct call
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Motions and gestures → Direct call, and then drag the
Direct call switch to the right.
While viewing call, message, or contact details, pick up and hold the device to your ear to
make a call.

Smart alert
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Motions and gestures → Smart alert, and then drag
the Smart alert switch to the right.
When you pick up the device after it has been idle for some time or when the screen has
turned off, it vibrates if you have missed calls or new messages.

56

Motions & usability features

Mute/Pause
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Motions and gestures → Mute/Pause, and then drag
the Mute/Pause switch to the right.

Covering screen with hand
Cover the screen with a palm to mute incoming calls or alarms, or to pause media playback.

Turning device over
Turn the device over to mute incoming calls or alarms, or to pause media playback.

57

Motions & usability features

Smart pause
Playback pauses automatically when you look away from the screen. It resumes when you
look at the screen again.

Capture screen
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Motions and gestures → Capture screen, and then
drag the Capture screen switch to the right.
Place the side of your hand on the screen and sweep it across the screen from the right to the
left or vice versa to capture a screenshot. The image is saved in the Gallery → → Album →
Screenshots folder.
It is not possible to capture a screenshot while using some apps.

58

Motions & usability features

Air view
Use this feature to perform various functions while your finger is hovering over the screen.
Point at the screen to preview content or view information in a pop-up window.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Air view, and then drag the Air view switch to the right.

Multi Window
About Multi Window
Use this feature to run two apps on the screen at the same time. You can use this feature to
view emails or use the Internet while you play a video simultaneously.

Launching Multi Window

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Multi window, and then drag the Multi window

switch to the right. Alternatively, open the quick setting panel and tap Multi window to
activate it.

59

Motions & usability features

2	 Tap

at the left side of the screen to open the Multi Window tray.

Multi Window tray handle

3	 Tap and hold an app icon to launch from the Multi Window tray. Then, drag it to one of
the two windows.

App icons marked with
same time.

can be launched in separate windows on the screen at the

60

Motions & usability features

Creating a Multi Window combination
Use this feature to save the combination of the currently-running Multi Window apps.

1	 Launch two apps in a split screen Multi Window.
2	 Open the Multi Window tray and tap → Create.
3	 Enter a title and tap OK.

The currently-running Multi Window combination is added to the Multi Window tray.

Adjusting the window size
Drag the circle between the app windows up or down to adjust the size of the windows.

61

Motions & usability features

Using Multi Window options
When you use Multi Window apps, select the app window and a white frame will appear
around it. Tap the circle between app windows to access the following options:

• 	

: Switch locations between Multi Window apps.

62

Motions & usability features

• 	 : Drag and drop text or copied images from one window to another. Tap and hold an
item in the selected window and drag it to a location in another window.

Some apps may not support this feature.
• 	 : Close the app.

Rearranging apps on the Multi Window tray
You can rearrange the apps on the Multi Window tray.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Multi window, and then drag the Multi window

switch to the right. Alternatively, open the quick setting panel and tap Multi window to
activate it.

2	 Open the Multi Window tray and tap

→ Edit.

The device displays the available apps that you can use on the Multi Window tray.

63

Motions & usability features

3	 Tap and hold an app and drag it to the Multi Window tray.

4	 Tap Done.

Toolbox
You can easily launch various apps from the toolbox icon while using other apps.
Open the quick setting panel and tap Toolbox to activate it. Alternatively, on the Apps screen,
tap Settings → Toolbox, and then drag the Toolbox switch to the right. appears on the
screen.
To launch an app, tap

and select an app.

To move the toolbox icon, tap

and drag it to another location.

To change the apps that are in the toolbox, tap and hold
To hide the toolbox icon, tap and hold

, and then drag it to Edit.

, and then drag it to Remove.

64

Motions & usability features

One-handed operation
You can switch to one-handed operation mode to conveniently operate the device with one
hand.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → One-handed operation, and then drag the Onehanded operation switch to the right.
To switch to one-handed operation mode, hold the device in one hand. Then, quickly drag
your thumb from the edge of the screen to the centre of the screen and back again.
Enlarge or reduce the screen
size.
Open the side menu and
access favourite apps.
Return to the full screen view.
Open the side menu and
access favourite contacts.

Return to the Home screen.
Adjust the volume.
Return to the previous screen.
Open the list of recent apps.

65

Motions & usability features

Managing shortcuts to contacts or apps
You can manage shortcuts to contacts or apps by opening the side menu.

1	 Tap or to open the side menu.
2	 Tap at the bottom of the side menu.
3	 Tap and hold a contact’s image or an app, and then drag it to the side menu.
To delete a shortcut to a contact’s image or an app, tap

4	 Tap

.

.

Increasing touch screen sensitivity
Use this feature to operate the screen while wearing gloves.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Display, and then tick Increase touch sensitivity.
Alternatively, open the quick setting panel and tap Increase touch sensitivity to activate it.
• 	Use leather gloves for better recognition while touching the screen. Other types of
material may not be recognised.
• 	For best results, tap the screen firmly while wearing gloves.
• 	The screen may not respond if you are wearing gloves when using the device
through the S View cover window.

66

Phone
Making calls
Tap Phone on the Apps screen.
Tap Keypad, enter a phone number, and then tap to make a voice call, or tap to make a
video call. You can also make calls to phone numbers listed in Logs, Favourites, and Contacts.
View call and message logs.

View favourite contacts.

Enter the number using the
keypad.

View the contacts list.
Access additional options.

Add the number to the contacts
list.

Preview the phone number.

Delete a preceding character.

67

Phone

Making calls from call logs or contact lists
Tap Logs or Contacts, and then drag a contact or a phone number to the right to make a call.
To deactivate the call by dragging an icon to the right feature, tap → Settings → Contacts,
and then deselect Swipe to call or send msg.

Making calls from the favourites list
You can easily call contacts that you communicate with frequently by adding them to the
favourite contacts list.
To add contacts to the favourites list, tap Contacts, select a contact, and then tap
To make a call to a favourite contact, tap Favourites and select a contact.

68

.

Phone

Number prediction
Tap Keypad.
When entering numbers on the keypad, automatic predictions appear. Select one of these to
make a call.

Speed dial numbers
Tap Keypad.
For speed dial numbers, tap and hold the corresponding digit.
To assign a contact to a speed dial number, tap and hold an available speed dial number on
the keypad, tap OK, and then select a contact. Or, tap Contacts → → Speed dial, select a
number, and then select a contact.

Making an international call
Tap Keypad.
Tap and hold 0 until the + sign appears. Enter the country code, area code, and phone
number, and then tap .
To block outgoing international calls, tap → Settings → Call → More settings → Call
barring. Then, select a call type and deselect International calls.

69

Phone

Receiving calls
Answering a call
When a call comes in, drag

outside the large circle.

If you are using an app when a call comes in, tap Answer in a pop-up window.
If the call waiting service is activated, another call can be made. When the second call is
answered, the first call is put on hold.

Rejecting a call
When a call comes in, drag

outside the large circle.

If you are using an app when a call comes in, tap Reject in the pop-window.
To send a message when rejecting an incoming call, drag the reject message bar upwards.
To create various rejection messages, on the Apps screen, tap Phone → → Settings → Call
→ Call rejection → Rejection messages → Create.

Automatically rejecting calls from unwanted numbers

1	 Tap Phone on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap → Settings → Call → Call rejection → Auto reject mode → Auto reject numbers.
3	 Tap Auto reject list → Create, enter a number, and then assign a category.
4	 Tap Save.
Missed calls
If a call is missed, appears on the status bar. Open the notifications panel to view the list of
missed calls. Alternatively, on the Apps screen, tap Phone → Logs to view missed calls.

70

Phone

During a call
During a voice call
The following actions are available:
• 	 : Increase the volume.
• 	Add call: Dial a second call.
• 	Keypad: Open the keypad.
• 	End call: End the current call.
• 	Speaker: Activate the speakerphone. Keep the device away from your ears when using
the speakerphone.
• 	Mute: Turn off the microphone so that the other party cannot hear you.
• 	Bluetooth: Switch to a Bluetooth headset if it is connected to the device.
• 	 → Hold: Hold a call. Tap Unhold to retrieve the held call.
• 	 → Contacts: Open the contacts list.
• 	 → Memo: Create a memo.
• 	 → Messages: Send a message.
• 	 → Personalise call sound: Select a type of call sound to use with a headset.
• 	 → Settings: Change the call settings.
When you launch apps during a call, a pop-up window for the call screen ( ) appears. You can
continue your phone conversation while using apps.
To move the pop-up window, drag it to another location.
To delete the pop-up window, tap and hold it, and then tap OK.
To return to the call screen, tap the pop-up window.

71

Phone

During a video call
The following actions are available:
• 	 → Hide me: Hide your image from the other party.
• 	 → Outgoing image: Select an image to show it to the other party.
• 	 → Capture image: Capture the other party’s image.
• 	 → Record video: Take a video of the other party’s images.
• 	 → Memo: Create a memo.
• 	 → Message: Send a message.
• 	 → Keypad: Open the keypad.
• 	 → Speaker off / Speaker on: Activate or deactivate the speakerphone. Keep the device
away from your ears when using the speakerphone.
• 	 → Switch to headset: Switch to a Bluetooth headset if it is connected to the device.
• 	 → Enable dual camera / Disable dual camera: Enable or disable the dual camera
feature. Use the front and rear cameras so that the other party can see you and your
surroundings.
Video calling with dual camera mode will be provided for up to 3 minutes. After
3 minutes the device will turn off the rear camera for optimal performance.
Tap the screen to use the following options:
• 	Switch: Switch between the front and rear camera.
• 	Mute: Turn off the microphone so that the other party cannot hear you.
• 	End call: End the current call.

72

Contacts
Adding contacts
Moving contacts from other devices
You can move contacts from other devices to your device. Refer to ‘Moving contacts from
other devices to your device’ for details.

Creating contacts manually

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Contacts → Contacts.
2	 Tap and enter contact information.
• 	 : Add an image.
• 	 /

: Add or delete a contact field.

3	 Tap Save.
To add a phone number to the contacts list from the keypad, tap Keypad, enter the number,
and then tap Add to contacts.

Creating contacts from business cards
Take a photo of a business card and extract contact information from it.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Contacts → Contacts.
2	 Tap → Business cards → .

To select or add languages to recognise, tap → Target language.

73

Contacts

3	 Place a business card on the flat surface and rotate the device to landscape orientation.
4	 Adjust the device to fit the card inside the frames on the screen. When the frames
turn green, the device automatically takes a photo. The device also reads the contact
information from the business card and converts it to a contact entry.
• 	If the device does not take the photo automatically, tap

.

• 	To take photos of business cards manually, tap → Auto capture → Off.
• 	To extract text from a stored image, tap → Load image.

5	 Edit or add more information and tap Save.

Managing contacts
Editing a contact

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Contacts → Contacts.
2	 Select a contact to edit and tap .
3	 Edit the contact information or tap Add another field to add more contact information.
4	 Tap Save.
Deleting a contact
Select a contact to delete, tap → Delete.

Sharing a contact
Select a contact to share, tap → Share name card, and then select a sharing method.

74

Contacts

Managing groups
On the Apps screen, tap Contacts → Contacts.
Tap

.

Creating a new group
Tap

, enter a group name, and then tap Save.

Adding contacts to a group
Select a group, and then tap

. Select contacts to add, and then tap Done.

Deleting a group
Tap → Delete group, select user-added groups, and then tap Done.

Sending a message or email to group’s members
Select a group, tap → Send message or email → Message or Email, select members, tap
Done, enter a message, and then tap the send button.

Merge contacts with accounts
Merge contacts that are saved in the device with your accounts.
On the Apps screen, tap Contacts → Contacts.
Tap → Merge accounts → Google or Samsung account.

Importing and exporting contacts
Import contacts from storage services to your device or export contacts from the device to
storage services.
On the Apps screen, tap Contacts → Contacts.
Tap → Settings → Contacts → Import/export, and then select an import or export option.

75

Contacts

Searching for contacts
On the Apps screen, tap Contacts → Contacts.
Use one of the following search methods:
• 	Scroll up or down the contacts list.
• 	Drag a finger along the index at the right side of the contacts list to scroll through it
quickly.
• 	Tap the search field at the top of the contacts list and enter search criteria.
Once a contact is selected, take one of the following actions:
• 	 : Add to favourite contacts.
• 	 /

: Make a voice or video call.

• 	

: Compose a message.

• 	

: Compose an email.

Adding shortcuts for contacts to the Home screen
Add shortcuts to contacts that you frequently communicate with on the Home screen.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Contacts → Contacts.
2	 Select a contact.
3	 Tap → Add shortcut to home screen.

76

Messages & email
Messages
Sending messages
Send text messages (SMS) or multimedia messages (MMS).
You may incur additional charges for sending or receiving messages while you are
outside your home service area.

1	 Tap Messages on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap .
3	 Add recipients and enter a message.
Access additional options.
Enter recipients.
Select contacts from the
contacts list.

Attach files.

Send the message.

Enter emoticons.
Enter a message.

4	 Tap

to send the message.

77

Messages & email

While composing a message, tap to use one of the following options:
• 	Quick responses: Select a message template and enter a message.
• 	Insert smiley: Enter emoticons.
• 	Add subject: Enter a subject.
• 	Add slide: Add message slides.
• 	Schedule message: Set a specified time and date for a message to be sent.
• 	Discard: Cancel composing the message.
• 	Font size: Change the font size of text in the text field.

Sending scheduled messages
While composing a message, tap → Schedule message. Set a time and date and tap Done.
• 	If the device is turned off at the scheduled time, is not connected to the network,
or the network is unstable, the message will not be sent.
• 	This feature is based on the time and date set on the device. The time and date
may be incorrect if you move across time zones and the network does not update
the information.

Adding contacts to the priority list
Set contacts that you communicate with frequently as priority contacts. Send them messages
by selecting a contact icon from above the messages list.
Tap Tap to add priority senders. → Inbox or Contacts, select contacts to add, and then tap
Done. To add more contacts, tap .
To remove contacts from the priority list, tap and hold a contact, and then tap Manage
priority senders → → Done.

78

Messages & email

Viewing incoming messages
Incoming messages are grouped into message threads by contact. Select a contact to view
the person’s messages.
You may incur additional charges for sending or receiving messages while you are
outside your home service area.
While viewing a message, tap to use one of the following options:
• 	Video call: Make a video call to the contact.
• 	View contact: View the contact’s information.
• 	Add to Contacts: Add the contact to the contacts list.
• 	Quick responses: Enter a message by selecting one from message templates.
• 	Add recipient: Add recipients to send the message to.
• 	Insert smiley: Enter emoticons.
• 	Add subject: Enter a subject.
• 	Add slide: Add message slides.
• 	Schedule message: Set a specified time and date from a message to be sent.
• 	Add to priority senders / Remove from priority senders: Add contacts to or remove
them from the priority senders list.
• 	Add to spam numbers / Remove from spam numbers: Identify a phone number as
spam or remove a phone number from the spam list.
• 	Discard: Cancel composing the message.
• 	Font size: Change the font size of text in the text field.

79

Messages & email

Managing messages
While viewing the list of messages, tap and use the following options:
• 	Select: Select messages to delete or to identify them as spam.
• 	Delete: Delete all or selected messages.
• 	Draft messages: View messages saved for later delivery.
• 	Locked messages: View locked messages.
• 	Scheduled messages: View scheduled messages.
• 	Spam messages: View spam messages.
• 	Font size: Change the font size.
• 	Settings: Change message settings.
• 	Help: Access help information about sending and managing messages.

Email
Setting up email accounts
Tap Email on the Apps screen.
Set up an email account when opening Email for the first time.
Enter the email address and password. Tap Next for a private email account, such as Google
Mail, or tap Manual setup for a company email account. After that, follow the on-screen
instructions to complete the setup.
To set up another email account, tap

→ Manage accounts →

.

Sending messages
Tap Email on the Apps screen.
Tap

at the bottom of the screen. Enter recipients, subject, and message, and then tap

Tap

to add a recipient from the contacts list.

Tap

to attach images, videos, and others.

Tap →

to insert images, events, and others into the message.

80

.

Messages & email

Sending scheduled messages
While composing a message, tap → Schedule email. Tick Schedule email, set a time and
date, and then tap Done.
• 	If the device is turned off at the scheduled time, is not connected to the network,
or the network is unstable, the message will not be sent.
• 	This feature is based on the time and date set on the device. The time and date
may be incorrect if you move across time zones and the network does not update
the information.

Reading messages
Tap Email on the Apps screen.
Tap , select an email account to use, and new messages are retrieved. To manually retrieve
new messages, tap .
Tap a message to read.
Delete the message.
Access additional options.

Add this email address to the
contacts list.

Open attachments.
Mark the message as a reminder.

Forward the message.
Reply to all recipients.

Go to the previous or next
message.

Reply to the message.

81

Messages & email

Adding contacts to the priority list
Set contacts that you communicate with frequently as priority contacts.
Tap → Priority senders → Tap to add priority senders → Enter email or Contacts, enter
email addresses or select contacts to add, and then tap OK or Done.
To add more contacts to the priority list, tap

.

To remove contacts from the priority list, tap and hold a contact, tap Edit list of priority
senders, tap on each contact, and then tap Done.

Google Mail
Use this app to quickly and directly access the Google Mail service.
Tap Google Mail on the Apps screen.
• 	This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
• 	This app may be labelled differently depending on the region or service provider.

Sending messages
Tap

, enter recipients, a subject, and a message, and then tap

82

.

Messages & email

Reading messages
Tap a message to read.
Delete the message.
Keep the message for long-term
storage.

Mark the message as unread.

Access additional options.

Mark the message as a reminder.

Reply to the message.

Preview attachment.

83

Camera
Taking photos or videos
About taking photos or videos
Use this app to take photos or videos.
Use Gallery to view photos and videos taken with the device’s camera. Refer to ‘Viewing
content on the device’ for details.
Camera etiquette
• 	Do not take photos or videos of other people without their permission.
• 	Do not take photos or videos where legally prohibited.
• 	Do not take photos or videos in places where you may violate other people’s privacy.
• 	The camera automatically shuts off when unused.
• 	Make sure that the lens is clean. Otherwise, the device may not work properly in
some modes that require high resolutions.
• 	The front camera lens is suitable for taking wide-angle photos. Minor distortion
may occur in wide-angle photos and does not indicate device performance
problems.

1	 Tap Camera on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap the image on the preview screen where the camera should focus.
When the subject is in focus, the focus frame turns green.

84

Camera

3	 Tap

to take a photo or

to take a video.

• 	To change the focus while taking a video, tap where you want to focus. To focus on the
centre of the screen, tap .
• 	To capture an image from the video while recording, tap

.
Display current
mode.

Switch between the
front and rear
camera.

Start taking a video.

Activate or
deactivate selective
focus mode.

Take a photo.

Change the
shooting mode.

Activate or
deactivate HDR (Rich
tone).

View photos and
videos you have
taken.

Change camera
settings.

Viewing photos or videos
You can view photos or videos immediately after taking them by opening the preview
thumbnail on the camera screen.
Tap the preview thumbnail at the bottom right of the screen.

85

Camera

Using the HDR (Rich tone) effect
Take photos with rich colours and reproduce details even in bright and dark areas.
On the Apps screen, tap Camera →

, and then take a photo.

Without effect

With effect

Using selective focus mode
Use the out-of-focus effect to blur the background and make your subject stand out.

86

Camera

Before using this mode
• 	It is recommended that you position subjects between 10-50 cm from the device. Place
subjects that you want to focus on close to the device.
• 	When taking photos, ensure there is sufficient distance between the subject and the
background. The distance should be more than twice the distance between the device
and the subject.
• 	The quality of photos taken by the device may be affected in the following situations:
– – Photos of subjects that are moving.
– – Photos that are taken when the device is moving.
– – Indoor photos, low-light conditions, or if there is strong light behind a subject.
– – Photos using a background that cannot be distinguished from the subject, such as
shadows or plain-coloured walls.

1	 Tap Camera on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap at the right side of the screen.
If

does not appear, tap

→ Selective focus to activate it.

3	 Tap the image on the preview screen where the camera should focus.
When the subject is in focus, the focus frame turns green.

4	 Tap to take a photo.
5	 Tap the preview thumbnail at the bottom right of the screen to edit the photo.
6	 Tap and select one of the following:
• 	Near focus: Make the subject stand out and blur the background around the subject.
• 	Far focus: Blur the subject and make the background stand out around the subject.
• 	Pan focus: Make the subject and its background stand out.

7	 Tap Done.

87

Camera

Launching Camera on the locked screen
To quickly take photos of special moments, launch Camera on the locked screen.

1	 On the locked screen, drag outside the large circle.
2	 Tap the image on the preview screen where the camera should focus.
When the subject is in focus, the focus frame turns green.

3	 Tap

to take a photo or

to take a video.

Using the shooting mode
Several photo effects are available.
On the Apps screen, tap Camera → MODE.
• 	Auto: Use this to allow the camera to evaluate the surroundings and determine the ideal
mode for the photo.
• 	Beauty face: Take a photo with lightened faces for gentler images.
• 	Shot & more: Take a series of photos and apply various effects to them. The device
in Gallery.
identifies the photos with
• 	Panorama: Take a photo composed of many photos strung together. The device
in Gallery.
identifies the photo with
To get the best shot, follow these tips:
– – Move the camera slowly in one direction.
– – Keep the camera’s viewfinder within the guide frame.
– – Avoid taking photos of a subject in front of unrecognisable backgrounds, such as
empty skies or plain walls.

88

Camera
• 	Virtual tour shot: Take photos of a space by moving the device and shooting from
different angles to create a stereoscopic image. The device identifies the photo with
Gallery.

in

• 	Dual Camera: Take landscape photos or videos with the rear or the front camera. The
image captured by the front camera appears in an inset window in the image taken by
the rear camera, or vice versa.
• 	Download: Download more shooting modes from Samsung Apps.

Using shot & more mode
About shot & more mode
Use this mode to take a series of photos and modify them by applying various effects using
the shooting modes.
The zoom function is not available while taking photos in this mode.

1	 Tap Camera on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap MODE → Shot & more.
3	 Tap .

The device takes a series of photos and displays the available shooting modes.

4	 Select a shooting mode and apply an effect to the photos.
• 	Best photo: Take a series of photos and save the best one. To view other photos in the
series, scroll left or right. The device recommends the best photo and identifies it with
.

89

Camera
• 	Best face: Take multiple group shots at the same time and combine them to create the
best possible image. Tap the white frame on each face and choose the best individual
pose for each subject from the poses that appear at the bottom of the screen. Then,
merge the images into a single photo. The device recommends the best photo and
identifies it with .
• 	Drama shot: Take a series of photos and combine them to create an image that shows
motion trails.
• 	Eraser: Erase moving objects in the background. Tap
to restore the original photo.

to erase moving objects. Tap

• 	Panning shot: Apply an effect to the subject’s background that makes the subject
appear to be moving fast. Tap Object to select a subject. Tap Motion blur to change
the angle of blurring to apply to the background. Tap and draw a circle with your
finger around the large circle to adjust the angle of blurring. To adjust the level of
background blurring, drag the screen to the left or the right.

5	 Tap

.

Drama shot

1	 Tap Camera on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap MODE → Shot & more.
3	 Tap .

The device takes a series of photos and displays available effects.

4	 When you are finished taking photos, tap Drama shot.
5	 Select more photos that have motion trails you want to use at the bottom of the screen.
To edit the motion trails of selected photos, tap

and select a photo.

Tap to display subject’s motion trails or tap
photo as desired and tap Done.

to erase the motion trails. Edit the

90

Camera

6	 Tap

to save.
To get the best shot, follow these tips. The device may not take photos properly in
other shooting conditions.
• 	Hold the camera steady and remain still while taking photos.
• 	Take photos of a subject that is moving in one direction.
• 	Take photos with backgrounds that are free of moving objects.
• 	Avoid taking photos of a subject and background with similar colours.

Using dual camera mode
When you take a landscape photo with the rear camera, the photo or video captured by the
front camera appears in an inset window, or vice versa. Use this feature to take a beautiful
landscape photo and a self-portrait simultaneously.
On the Apps screen, tap Camera → MODE → Dual Camera to switch to dual camera mode.
Tap to take a photo or tap to take a video.
Switch between the
front and rear
camera.

Tap to resize it or
move the location.
Select among
various styles that
are available.

• 	You can record videos in dual camera mode for up to 5 minutes in Full HD and up
to 10 minutes in HD or VGA.
• 	While taking videos in this mode, sound is recorded by the internal microphone.

91

Camera

Using virtual tour mode
About virtual tour mode
Use this shooting mode to take photos in a space by moving forwards, and rotating left
or right. Photos of the space are taken from different angles. You can view the photos in a
slideshow and simulate actually moving through the space.

1	 Tap Camera on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap MODE → Virtual tour shot.
3	 Move with the device to position the dot inside the large circle in the centre of the

preview screen. The device detects when you stop and starts to take photos from that
position in the space.

4	 Move slowly forwards, or rotate left or right while taking photos. Whenever the dot is
inside the large circle, the device takes a photo automatically.

92

Camera

5	 Move with the device slowly in the direction of the arrow. When the dot is in the centre of
the large circle, the device starts taking photos. Repeat this action to take more photos.

To see a preview of the photo, tap at the bottom left of the screen. The direction where
images were taken is displayed on each preview thumbnail.
To delete the last photo that was taken, tap Undo.

6	 To finish, tap

.

Viewing photos
View a series of photos taken from different locations and directions.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Gallery.
2	 Select an image with the icon on the image thumbnail.
3	 Tap .
The device displays the photos in a slideshow.

Display movement
paths.
Drag to view the
photo from other
locations and
directions.
Start or pause the
slideshow.

93

Camera

Applying filter effects
Use the filter effects to take unique photos or videos.

1	 Tap Camera on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap → Effects, and then select an effect to apply.
To download more effects, tap Download.

To change the order of effects or hide effects from the list, tap Manage effects.

Using the zoom feature
Zoom in and out the screen when taking photos or videos.

Use one of the following methods:
• 	Spread two fingers apart on the screen to zoom in, and pinch to zoom out.
The zoom in/out effect is available when using the zoom feature while shooting
video.

94

Camera

Using remote viewfinder mode
Use your device as a viewfinder for another device. You can control the other device remotely
to take photos or videos from a distance. Your device displays the same image that is
displayed on the connected device.

1	 Tap Camera on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap → Remote viewfinder.
3	 Tap Easily connect via NFC or Wi-Fi Direct settings to connect to another device.
• 	Easily connect via NFC: Activate the NFC feature on both devices.
• 	Wi-Fi Direct settings: Activate the Wi-Fi Direct feature on both devices.

4	 Tap the image on the preview screen where the device should focus.
5	 Tap to take the photo displayed on the connected device’s viewfinder.
Ensure that the device you want to connect to supports the remote viewfinder mode.

95

Camera

Changing Camera settings
Reorganising camera shortcuts

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Camera → .
2	 Tap and hold an item and drag it to a slot at the left of the screen.

You can reorganise camera shortcuts for fast and easy access on the preview screen.

Configuring settings
On the Apps screen, tap Camera → . Not all of the following options are available in both
still camera and video camera modes. The available options vary depending on the mode
used.
• 	Picture size: Select a resolution. Use higher resolution for higher quality. But it takes up
more memory.
• 	Burst shots: Take a series of photos of moving subjects.
• 	Picture stabilisation: Set the device to automatically detect darker conditions and adjust
the brightness of the photo without the flash.
This option is not available when you take videos.

96

Camera
• 	Face detection: Set the device to recognise people’s faces and help you take photos of
them.
• 	ISO: Select an ISO value. This controls camera light sensitivity. It is measured in filmcamera equivalents. Low values are for stationary or brightly-lit objects. Higher values are
for fast-moving or poorly-lit objects.
• 	Metering modes: Select a metering method. This determines how light values are
calculated. Centre-weighted measures background light in the centre of the scene. Spot
measures the light value at a specific location. Matrix averages the entire scene.
• 	Tap to take pics.: Tap the image on the preview screen to take photos.
• 	Selective focus: Use this to take a photo with an out-of-focus effect.
• 	Video size: Select a resolution. Use higher resolution for higher quality. But it takes up
more memory.
• 	Recording mode: Change the recording mode.
• 	Video stabilisation: Activate or deactivate anti-shake. Anti-shake helps focus when the
camera is moving.
• 	Audio zoom: Make the sound from the zoomed subject louder while recording.
• 	Effects: Select among various effects that are available.
• 	Flash: Activate or deactivate the flash.
• 	Timer: Use this for delayed-time shots.
• 	HDR (Rich tone): Use this to improve the contrast ratio in photos. HDR enhances the
details in areas affected by too much or too little light.
• 	Location tag: Attach a GPS location tag to the photo.
• 	To improve GPS signals, avoid shooting in locations where the signal may be
obstructed, such as between buildings or in low-lying areas, or in poor weather
conditions.
• 	Your location may appear on your photos when you upload them to the Internet.
To avoid this, deactivate the GPS tag setting.

97

Camera
• 	Storage: Select the memory location for storage.
• 	Review pics/videos: Set the device to show photos or videos after taking them.
• 	Remote viewfinder: Set the device to use as a viewfinder and control the other device to
take photos or videos.
• 	White balance: Select an appropriate white balance, so images have a true-to-life colour
range. The settings are designed for specific lighting situations. These settings are similar
to the heat range for white-balance exposure in professional cameras.
• 	Exposure value: Change the exposure value. This determines how much light the
camera’s sensor receives. For low-light situations, use a higher exposure.
• 	Guide lines: Display viewfinder guides to help composition when selecting subjects.
• 	Voice control: Set the device to take photos with voice commands.
• 	Help: Access help information for using the camera.
• 	Reset: Reset the camera settings.

98

Gallery
Viewing content on the device
1	 Tap Gallery on the Apps screen.
Search for images or videos.

Launch Camera.

Sort images or videos by time,
album, and more.

Access additional options.
Images and videos

2	 Select an image.
• 	Selecting multiple images:
When you tap and hold an image,
select more.

appears on the image. Then, tap images to

• 	Selecting all images:
When you tap and hold an image,
Select all.

appears on the image. Then, tap 1 selected →

99

Gallery

3	 Select an option.
Send the image to others.

Modify the image.

Move to the previous screen.

Access additional options.

Search for other devices to view
the image.

Delete the image.

Viewing content stored on other devices
You can view content stored on other devices if the devices are registered with Samsung Link.
Sign in to your Samsung account to view a list of other devices that have content available
to view. Ensure that the registered devices are turned on and connected to a Wi-Fi or mobile
network. Visit link.samsung.com for more information.
You may incur additional charges when you view content stored on other devices via
the mobile network. To avoid additional charges, use the Wi-Fi feature.
Tap , select a device under CONNECTED DEVICES, and then select content.

100

Gallery

Modifying content on the device
Using studio mode
While viewing images or videos, you can use the editing features in studio mode to edit the
content.
On the Apps screen, tap Gallery → → Studio.
• 	Photo studio: Edit images by applying various effects.
• 	Collage studio: Combine several images together to create a collage.
• 	Shot & more: Apply various effects to the images you have taken.
• 	Video clip studio: Edit or create videos with multiple images.
• 	Video trimmer: Trim video segments.

Editing images

1	 Tap Gallery on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap → Studio → Photo studio, and then select an image.
3	 Edit the image by applying various effects.

Apply effects to the image.

Correct red-eye, adjust and
retouch faces, or make the
background blurry.

Adjust the saturation or
brightness of the image.

Decorate the image by adding
stickers, inserting a frame, or
drawing on the image.

Crop, rotate, or resize the image.

101

Gallery

4	 Tap Done → .
5	 Select a save option and tap OK.

The edited photo is saved in the Studio folder. To open the folder, tap Gallery →
Album → Studio.

→

Editing videos

1	 Tap Gallery on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap → Studio → Video clip studio.
3	 Select videos to edit and tap Done.

You can also select images to create a video.

4	 Edit the video by applying various effects.
Select background music.

Discard the video clip.
Save the video clip.

Change the order of videos or
images in the video clip, or add
more files.

Preview the video clip.

Play the video clip.

Adjust the length of the video
clip.

Apply effects to the video clip.

102

Gallery

5	 Tap .
6	 Select a save option and tap Done.

The edited video is saved in the Studio folder. To open the folder, tap Gallery →
Album → Studio.

Accessing additional options
Use additional options, such as sorting content, viewing slideshows, and more.
On the Apps screen, tap Gallery → , and then use the following options:
• 	Select: Select images or videos.
• 	Delete: Delete images.
• 	Sort by oldest: Sort the oldest images and videos on the device.
• 	Create album: Create a new album.
• 	Content to display: Select the images or videos to display.
• 	Slideshow: Start a slideshow with the images in the current folder.
• 	Studio: Edit images or videos in studio mode.
• 	Settings: Change the Gallery settings.
• 	Help: Access help information for Gallery.

Tagging faces
Register the faces in the image as face tags.

1	 Tap Gallery on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap → Settings, and then tick Face tag.

A white frame appears around the recognised face.

103

→

Gallery

3	 Tap the face and tap Add name.
4	 Select or add a contact to the tag, and then tap Done.

When the face tag appears on an image, tap the face tag and use available options, such
as making calls or sending messages.
Face recognition success depends on the face’s angle, size, skin colour and facial
expression. Also, it depends on the light conditions and the accessories that the
subject is wearing.

Using Tag buddy
Tag buddy allows you to tag photos with information, such as locations, person’s names, and
dates.
To activate Tag buddy, on the Apps screen, tap Gallery → → Settings → Tag buddy, and
then drag the Tag buddy switch to the right.
Select from the following tag options:
• 	Date: Add the time and date. The tagged information is based on the date and time
currently-set on the device.
• 	Location: Add location details to photos that you take. Before using this feature, activate
the GPS feature in Camera. Refer to ‘Location tag’ for details.
• 	Category: Assign categories to images. The device assigns categories to the images
automatically.
• 	Tags: Add tags to display on photos. You can also tag people’s faces by using the Face tag
setting. Refer to ‘Tagging faces’ for details.
You can edit the information entered using Tag buddy. While viewing an image with tags, tap
the tag information at the bottom of the screen. Then, tap , edit details, and then tap Done.

104

Internet & SNS
Internet
Browsing webpages

1	 Tap Internet on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap the address field. To change the search engine, tap the search engine icon next to the
web address field.

3	 Enter the web address or a keyword, and then tap Go. To search the web by voice, tap
To view the toolbars, drag your finger downwards slightly on the screen.
Bookmark the current webpage.

Open the webpage window
manager.

Read an article using Reader.

Access additional options.
Refresh the current webpage.

View saved pages.

Move to the home page.
Move to the previously-visited
page.

View bookmarked webpages.

105

.

Internet & SNS

Managing favourite webpages
You can set frequently-used webpages as favourite pages and then access them quickly.
Tap Internet on the Apps screen.
Tap

to view the quick access list.

To add a webpage to the quick access list while viewing a webpage, tap → Add to Quick
access.
To delete a webpage from the quick access list, tap and hold a webpage icon, and then drag it
to Delete that appears at the top of the screen.

Managing the webpage history
Tap Internet on the Apps screen.
Tap

→ History to open a webpage from the list of recently-visited webpages.

To clear the history, tap → Clear history.
To delete webpages in the history, tap → Delete, select webpages to delete, and then tap
Done.

Chrome
Use this app to search for information and browse webpages.
Tap Chrome on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
Tap the address field, enter the web address or a keyword, and then tap Go.

106

Internet & SNS

Hangouts
Use this app to chat and socialise with your friends individually or in groups.
Tap Hangouts on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
Select a friend from the friends list or enter data to search and select a friend from the results
to start chatting.

ChatON
Use this app to chat and socialise with your friends individually or in groups. When you sign in
to your Samsung account, you can view all your chat history sent from registered devices.
Tap ChatON on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup.
View or edit profile details.
Select a conversation type to
start chatting.

View a list of chats.

Access additional options.

View a list of buddies.
Search for buddies.

Add buddies to the list of
buddies.

My profile

Download items and view a list
of recommended buddies.

List of buddies

107

Internet & SNS

Chatting with buddies
Tap → Start chat, and then select a buddy to start chatting with. Then, enter a message in
the text field and tap .
To send a broadcast message, tap
To start voice or video chat, tap

→ Broadcast.
→ ChatON Voice Chat or ChatON Video Chat.

Video chatting with dual camera mode will be provided for up to 3 minutes. After
3 minutes the device will turn off the rear camera for optimal performance.

108

S Health
About S Health
Use this app to set your calorie intake and calorie burning levels based on your physical
statistics. You can use it to record the actual calories you eat and burn. Also, the app
recommends exercises and provides health tips to help you maintain a balanced-lifestyle.
Tap S Health on the Apps screen.

S Health features
While using S Health you can access the following features:
• 	Pedometer: Count the steps that you take.
• 	Exercise: Set and manage your exercise goals. You can record and check exercise
information such as quantities, speed, and calories burnt. Also, when you exercise
outdoors you can use the Exercise feature to take photos, listen to music, and check your
location.
• 	Food: Manage your calorie intake.

109

S Health

Starting S Health
When running this app for the first time, read and agree to the terms and conditions, and
then set up a user profile.

1	 Tap S Health on the Apps screen.
2	 Read the on-screen information about the app and tap Next.
3	 Read and agree to the terms and conditions, and then tap Next.
4	 Sign in to your Samsung account. Or, tap Skip to skip this procedure.
5	 Enter a user name and your birth date, select your gender, and then tap Next.

To prevent your profile to be viewed from other S Health users, tick Hide my profile
information from other S Health users.

6	 Enter your physical statistics and tap Next.
7	 Select an activity level and tap Next.

When you finish setting up the profile, the profile information you entered appears.
Based on your physical statistics, the device calculates your basal metabolic rate
(BMR) and recommends a daily calorie intake. The recommendation may not be
accurate for all ages, body compositions, or nutritional needs.

8	 Check your profile information and tap Start.
The S Health main screen appears.

110

S Health

Customising the S Health main screen
View a summary that shows your current step count and the calories you have burnt or
eaten. You can also reorganise shortcuts for easy access to S Health menus and change the
background image on the S Health main screen.
On the S Health main screen, tap → Edit favourites, and then tap
S Health main screen.
To delete shortcuts, tap

to add shortcuts to the

.

Access the S Health menu
screen.

Access additional options.
Summaries of step counts,
calorie goals, and intake calories

Shortcuts to S Health menus

Search for and download apps.

Tap and use the following functions:
• 	Edit favourites: Add or edit S Health menu shortcuts.
• 	Set background: Select a background image.
• 	Settings: Configure settings for S Health.
• 	Help: Access help information about using S Health.

111

S Health

Using S Health menus
Tap

to access various menus.

My profile
Access the S Health main screen.

Select to use menus.

• 	Pedometer: Measure your step count and check burnt calories. Refer to ‘Measuring steps
taken’ for details.
• 	Exercise: Record exercise duration and check burnt calories. Refer to ‘Using the Exercise
mate’ for details.
• 	Food: Record and manage calorie intake. Refer to ‘Recording food intake’ for details.
• 	More apps: Search for and download the apps that can sync with S Health.
Further information about S Health functions or apps downloaded via More apps is
available. To access more information, tap on the screen that you want to learn more
and tap Help.

112

S Health

Measuring steps taken
The device counts the number of steps you have taken and measures the distance travelled. It
also measures the calories you have burnt using a sensor.

1	 Tap → Pedometer.
2	 Tap Start and start walking.

The device measures your step count, distance travelled, and burnt calories, and displays
them in real-time.

View the logs of your daily steps.
Access additional options.
Move to a specific date of step
count records.

View and manage accessory
device connections.

Step count
Target number of steps
Distance you have walked

Calories you have burnt

View your step count in a graph.
Start measuring.

Check your ranking in the
community.

3	 To stop measuring, tap Pause → OK.
The measurements are saved.

113

S Health

Tap and use the following functions:
• 	Set goal: Change the target number of steps.
• 	Reset daily data: Reset the daily step count.
• 	Share via: Send the current page to others.
• 	Settings: Configure settings for S Health.
• 	Help: Access help information about using S Health.
• 	You may experience a brief delay while the Pedometer monitors your steps and
displays your step count.
• 	If you use the Pedometer while travelling by car or train, vibration may affect your
step count.

Viewing your step count in a graph
View your burnt calories for a period in a graph. Tap

.
View the logs of your daily steps.

Access the S Health menu
screen.

View and manage accessory
device connections.

View hourly, daily or monthly
records in a graph.

Total step count

View your step count in a graph.

Return to the previous screen.

114

S Health

Resetting the daily step records
The device accumulates each day’s step records.
To reset the daily step count, tap → Reset daily data → OK.

Using the Exercise mate
Set exercise goals to plan your exercise. Check and manage your exercise quantities and
burnt calories based on your exercise schedule. You can view your exercise information and
burnt calories in a graph and share the data with others.
• 	Before using this feature, users suffering from any medical condition are
recommended to seek the advice of a licensed medical professional. This applies
particularly to users with chronic heart disease or high blood pressure, pregnant
women, the elderly, and young children.
• 	If you feel dizzy, experience pain, or have difficulty breathing during exercise, stop
using this feature. Then, seek the advice of a licensed medical professional.

1	 Tap → Exercise.
2	 Set the exercise type, activate or deactivate the voice guide, select background, and then
tap Start.

The device records the exercise time and displays progress towards achieving exercise
goals.

115

S Health

3	 Start exercising and use the various features on the screen.

Tap to lock the screen and display exercise information only. To unlock the screen, tap
and hold .
Take a photo of the exercise
location.

View a map of places you have
exercised.

Exercise type

View and manage accessory
device connections.

Information displayed during
exercise such as speed, time, and
more. Tap to show more items.

Activate or deactivate the audio
guide.
Control music playback.

4	 To finish using the Exercise mate, tap Pause → Stop.

The exercise information, distance, and photos you have taken are displayed on the
screen.

5	 Enter additional information and tap Done.

The device records the exercise information.

116

S Health

Tap and use the following functions:
• 	Daily calorie goals: Change the amount of calories you plan to burn each day.
• 	Reset daily data: Reset the daily exercise data.
• 	Settings: Configure settings for S Health.
• 	Help: Access help information about using S Health.

Viewing a log of burnt calories
Compare your burnt calorie records for a period by viewing them in a graph. Tap

.

View the logs of your daily
exercise.

Access the S Health menu
screen.

View and manage accessory
device connections.

View hourly, daily or monthly
records in a graph.

Total burnt calories

View your burnt calories in a
graph.

Return to the previous screen.

Entering data by using accessory devices
Import exercise data from the connected device.
→ Scan, and then select a device from the detected devices list. Follow the onTap
screen instructions to connect the device to your device.

117

S Health

Recording food intake
Record your daily food intake and manage your calorie consumption.

1	 Tap → Food.
2	 Tap next to the meal.
3	 Enter the meal time information and tap Done.
• 	To search for a food, tap Search and select it from the search results.
• 	To select from a food list sorted into categories, tap Category.
• 	To select from the frequently-eaten foods, tap Frequent.
• 	To select from the My food list, tap My Food.

4	 Enter additional food information and tap Save.

The food information is recorded as your calorie intake for the meal.
View the logs of your daily
calorie intake.

Access additional options.

Move to a specific date to view
calorie intake records.

Total calorie intake
Calorie goal

View or edit meal time
information.
Add meal information.
Take a photo of a food item to
add it to meal information.
Select from the My food list.

View your calorie intake in a
graph.

118

S Health

Tap and use the following functions:
• 	Daily calorie goal: Change your daily calorie intake goal.
• 	My Food: Enter the frequently-eaten foods.
• 	Reset daily data: Reset the daily calorie intake data.
• 	Share via: Send the current page to others.
• 	Settings: Configure settings for S Health.
• 	Help: Access help information about using S Health.
Use the calorie information in Food for personal reference only. The provided data is
subject to change and some food information may differ from actual calorie levels.

Viewing calorie intake in a graph
Compare your calorie intake records for a period by viewing them in a graph. Tap
Access the S Health menu
screen.

.

View the logs of your daily
calorie intake.

View hourly, daily or monthly
records in a graph.

Total calorie intake

View your calorie intake in a
graph.

Return to the previous screen.

119

S Health

Entering information about frequently-eaten food
Save information about food that you eat frequently. You can quickly update your calorie
intake by adding saved food information instead of entering the information each time you
eat it.

1	 Tap → My Food.
2	 Tap Add food item, enter the food name and its calorie information, and then tap Save.
3	 Enter the amount that you eat and tap OK.
The food information is added to My food list.

4	 To record intake food information from the frequently-eaten food list, tap My Food, select
the added food, and then tap Done.

5	 Tap Save.

Using the additional menus
You can download and install various apps that are compatible with this app.

1	 Tap → More apps.
2	 Tap More and select an app.
3	 Follow the on-screen instructions and install the app.

120

S Health

Configuring settings for S Health
On the S Health main screen, tap → Settings, and then select one of the following:
• 	Profile: Edit your physical statistics.
• 	Accounts: Sign in to your Samsung account to manage S Health data online.
• 	Password: Set a PIN to lock or unlock S Health.
• 	Unit settings: Set unit options.
• 	Notification: Set the device to display new events and achievements.
• 	My accessories: View and manage accessory device connections.
• 	Compatible accessories: View accessories that are compatible with the device or
manage connected accessories.
• 	Reset data: Reset S Health data.
• 	Check for updates: Check the current version of S Health.
• 	Terms of Conditions: View the terms and conditions, including personal information and
data retention policies.
• 	About S Health: View information about S Health.

121

S Health
• 	The personal information collected by S Health is saved on the device for selfdiagnosis purposes only. Samsung does not receive, store, or transmit your
personal information. (But, if you sign in to your Samsung account from S Health,
data may be saved on the server for data backup purposes.) Personal information
is retained until the purpose for collecting the personal information is complete.
You can delete personal data stored by S Health by using the Reset data option
in the Settings menu or by uninstalling the app. Resetting the data will delete
all information stored in the app. To delete any data you have shared with social
networks or transferred to storage devices, you must delete it separately.
• 	S Health can back up your health data to your Samsung account. If you sign in to
your Samsung account, data entered in S Health is saved on the Samsung account
server.
• 	Collected data is deleted when the purpose for collecting the personal information
is complete. The method used to delete personal data is defined in Samsung’s
Privacy Policy.
• 	You assume full responsibility for the inappropriate use of data shared on social
networks or transmitted to others. Use caution when sharing your personal data
with others.
• 	To secure your personal information, on the S Health main screen, tap → Settings
→ Password, and then set a password.
• 	If the device is connected to measuring devices, verify the communication protocol
to confirm proper operation. If you use a wireless connection, such as Bluetooth or
ANT+, the device may be affected by electronic interference from other devices.
Avoid using the device near other devices that transmit radio waves.
• 	The content used in the S Health app may vary depending on the software version
of the app. The services provided with the app are subject to change or the
cancellation of support without prior notice.

122

Voice features
S Voice
About S Voice
Use this app to command the device by voice to perform various features.
Tap S Voice on the Apps screen. Alternatively, press the Home button twice.
To deactivate the access by pressing the Home button, tap → Settings, and then deselect
Open via the home key.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Setting the language
Tap → Settings → Language, and then select a language.
The selected language is applied to S Voice only, not to the device’s display language.

Using S Voice
When you launch S Voice, the device starts voice recognition and the microphone icon turns
red.
Say a voice command.
If you say a command and the device recognises it, the microphone icon at the bottom of the
screen flashes green. Then, the device performs the command.

123

Voice features
Tips for better voice recognition:
• 	Speak clearly.
• 	Speak in quiet places.
• 	Do not use offensive or slang words.
• 	Avoid speaking in dialectal accents.
The device may not recognise your commands or may perform unwanted commands
depending on your surroundings or how you speak.

Waking up S Voice in standby mode
If S Voice is not used for a certain period, it automatically switches to standby mode.
Tap the microphone icon or say “Hi Galaxy” to the device to resume voice recognition.

Changing the wake-up command
You can change the wake-up command from “Hi Galaxy”. The wake-up command is used to
launch S Voice when the device is in standby mode.
Tap → Settings → Voice wake-up → Set wake-up command.

Disabling voice feedback
Tap → Disable voice prompt. The device stops providing voice feedback when you say
commands.

Correcting unwanted voice commands
You can edit the voice commands if the device does not recognise them correctly.
To correct a voice command, tap the last speech bubble that contains your spoken text and
edit the text with the keyboard.

124

Voice features

Voice Recorder
Recording voice memos
Tap Voice Recorder on the Apps screen.
Tap to start recording. Speak into the microphone at the bottom of the device. Tap
pause recording. To cancel recording, tap . Tap to finish recording.
While recording a voice memo, tap

to insert a bookmark.
Access additional options.

Recording elapsed time
Start recording.
Display the list of voice memos.

Change the recording mode.

To set the device to remove background noise, tap → Settings, and then tick Noise
reduction.

125

to

Voice features

Saving files with contextual tags
Add contextual tags, such as locations and dates, to filenames when saving voice memos.
Tap → Settings, and then tick Contextual filename. The device adds the recording date to a
filename. To add the location where a voice memo is recorded, tap → Settings, and then tick
Location tags.

Playing voice memos
Tap Voice Recorder on the Apps screen.
Tap

and select a voice memo to play.

• 	 : Trim the voice memo.
• 	 : Set a portion of the voice memo for looped play.
• 	

: Adjust the playback speed.

• 	 : Skip a silent portion in the voice memo.
• 	 : Insert bookmarks on the voice memo.
• 	 /

: Pause or resume playback.

• 	 /

: Skip to the previous or next voice memo.

Using the bookmarks list
You can mark specific points in a voice memo with bookmarks. Each bookmark is marked
with a bookmark icon on the voice memo.
To view the bookmark details while a voice memo is playing, tap → Bookmarks. Select a
bookmark from the bookmark list to play the voice memo from that position.

126

Voice features

Managing voice memos
On the Apps screen, tap Voice Recorder →
Tap

to search for voice memos.

Tap

to delete voice memos.

.

Tap and select one of the following:
• 	Select: Select voice memos to share or delete.
• 	Sort by: Sort memos by date, title, or category.
• 	Filter by category: View memos filtered by a category.
• 	Edit categories: Add, delete, or rename categories.
• 	Settings: Change the voice recorder settings.

Renaming voice memos
Tap and hold the voice memo, tap → Rename, enter the name for the voice memo, and
then tap OK.

Managing categories
Tap → Edit categories →

, enter a category name, select a colour, and then tap Done.

To change or assign voice memo categories, in the list of voice memos, tap and hold the voice
memo. Then, tap → Change category, and then select the category.
To filter voice memos by category, tap → Filter by category, and then select the category.

Voice Search
Use this app to search webpages by speaking.
Tap Voice Search on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
Say a keyword or phrase when Speak now appears on the screen.

127

Voice features

Car mode
About car mode
Use this mode to control the device while you are driving. You can listen to messages and
music by using voice commands and without touching the device.
Open the quick setting panel and tap Car mode to activate it.
Do not look at the screen or perform functions with your hands while driving.
• 	Navigation maps, your current location, and other navigational data may differ
from actual location information. You should always pay attention to road
conditions, traffic, and any other factors that may affect your driving. Follow all
safety warnings and regulations while driving.
• 	You may incur additional charges when using the navigation feature.
• 	This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
• 	This mode is not supported in some languages.

Before using this app
• 	Ensure that the vehicle that you connect your device to supports the Bluetooth feature.
• 	Ensure that the Bluetooth feature of your device and the vehicle is activated when you
register the vehicle to the device.

128

Voice features

Starting car mode
When running this app for the first time, follow the on-screen instructions to complete the
setup.

1	 Open the quick setting panel and tap Car mode to activate it.
2	 If an S-Voice pop-up window appears, read the disclaimer, tap Open S Voice, and then
follow the on-screen instructions.

3	 When the car mode screen appears, tap Next.
4	 Read and agree to the terms and conditions, and then tap Next.
5	 Read the warning content and tap Next.
6	 Tap Yes to connect your device and a vehicle via Bluetooth.

When the device cannot search for the vehicle, on the device, tap Search from mobile
device and register the vehicle manually.

7	 When you finish registration, tap Next.
8	 Read the on-screen instructions and tap Start.

When you finish the setup, the car mode main screen appears.

Registering a vehicle
When you register a vehicle to your device, you can listen to voice feedback from the device
via the car’s speakers. You can also set the device to activate car mode automatically when it
connects to the vehicle, and more.

1	 Tap → Settings → Register Car → Add car.
2	 Accept the Bluetooth authorisation request and tap Yes to activate the Bluetooth feature.

129

Voice features

3	 Follow the on-screen instructions to connect the device and the vehicle.

If the vehicle cannot detect your device, tap Search from mobile device to search for the
vehicle on your device.
• 	Before registering your vehicle, start the vehicle and turn on the radio.
• 	While you are registering a vehicle to the device, place the device near the vehicle.

Activating car mode automatically
You can set the device to activate car mode when the device and a vehicle are connected via
Bluetooth.
When you finish registering the vehicle, tap → Settings → Register Car, and then tick Auto
Open via Bluetooth.

Adding shortcuts to frequently-visited places
Save shortcuts to frequently-visited places to easily search for routes.

1	 Tap → Settings → Registered Places.
2	 Tap Home, Work, or Car.
3	 Tap Select method, select a location recognition method, such as maps, Wi-Fi, or
Bluetooth, and then tap OK.

4	 Tap Done.
To add new places, tap
tap Done.

, enter a place name, set a location recognition method, and then

130

Voice features

Using car mode menus
Open the quick setting panel and tap Car mode to activate it.
When the car mode main screen appears, say “Hi, Galaxy” and say a voice command.
Alternatively, tap “Hi Galaxy” on the screen and select a menu.
If car mode is running in the background, you can use a voice command to wake up
car mode. This feature is not available if the device is already set to launch Google by
saying “OK Google”. To deactivate wake-up voice command, on the Apps screen, tap
Google → → Settings → Voice, and then tick Hotword detection.
Activate the voice
command feature.

Access additional
options.

Compose and send
messages.

Search for places,
share your location,
and more.

Listen to music.

Make or answer calls.

Tap to use the following options:
• 	Example commands: View examples of spoken commands.
• 	Settings: Change car mode settings.
• 	Help: Access help information about using car mode.

131

Voice features

Making or answering calls
Open the quick setting panel and tap Car mode to activate it.

Making a call using voice commands

1	 On the car mode main screen, say “Hi Galaxy” or tap “Hi Galaxy”.
2	 Say a voice command including a name for a contact.
Here is an example of spoken commands:
“Call Charlie mobile”

Making a call by tapping the menu

1	 On the car mode main screen, tap Phone.
2	 Say a voice command including a name for a contact or select a contact from the
suggested contacts at the bottom of the screen.
To search for a contact, tap

and enter the contact’s name.

Sending messages
Open the quick setting panel and tap Car mode to activate it.

Sending a message using voice commands

1	 On the car mode main screen, say “Hi Galaxy” or tap “Hi Galaxy”.
2	 Say a voice command including the contact’s name.
Here is an example of spoken commands:

“Text Katie message. Are you free tonight for dinner?”

132

Voice features

Sending a message by entering text

1	 On the car mode main screen, tap Messages.
2	 Say a contact’s name or select a contact from the suggested contacts at the bottom of
the screen.

To search for a contact, tap

and enter the contact’s name.

3	 Tap and enter a message using the keyboard, or say the message to be entered.
4	 Tap Send to send the message.
Using the navigation feature
Open the quick setting panel and tap Car mode to activate it.

Navigating to a preset destination
The device navigates you to the preset destination. Before using this feature, save shortcuts to
frequently-visited places to easily search for routes. Refer to ‘Adding shortcuts to frequentlyvisited places’ for details.

1	 On the car mode main screen, say “Hi Galaxy” or tap “Hi Galaxy”.
2	 Say the name of the preset destination using a voice command. Alternatively, tap
Navigation and select a preset destination, such as Home, Work, or My Place.

Navigating to a destination
Select a location precisely by tapping and holding your finger on the map. Or, use a voice
command to navigate to a destination.

1	 On the car mode main screen, say “Hi Galaxy” or tap “Hi Galaxy”.
2	 Say a keyword or the address for the location using a voice command. Alternatively, tap
Navigation → Map, and then enter a keyword or the address for the location.

To search for a location, tap the search field.

133

Voice features

Listening to music
Open the quick setting panel and tap Car mode to activate it.

Playing music using voice commands

1	 On the car mode main screen, say “Hi Galaxy” or tap “Hi Galaxy”.
2	 Say a voice command including keywords for a song.
Here is an example of spoken commands:
“Play album Secret”

3	 When the music player screen appears, say a voice command to control the playback.
Playing music by tapping the screen

1	 On the car mode main screen, tap Music.
2	 Say a voice command.
3	 Control the playback by tapping the buttons.
To search for a song, tap

and enter keywords for a song.

134

Voice features

Configuring settings
Open the quick setting panel and tap Car mode to activate it.
Tap → Settings, and then change the following settings:
• 	Language: Select a language for the text-to-speech feature.
• 	Register Car:
– – Auto Open via Bluetooth: Set the device to activate car mode when the device and a
vehicle are connected with Bluetooth.
– – Add car: Register a vehicle that is connected to the device via Bluetooth.
• 	Reject message: Set the device to send a message when rejecting an incoming call. You
can create or edit the rejection message.
• 	Edit suggested contacts:
– – Auto recommend: Set the device to suggest contacts from the contacts list.
– – Set favourites: Add contacts to favourites. Tap Add contact to add favourite contacts.
• 	Registered Places: Set specific locations when you use GPS, Wi-Fi, or Bluetooth features
to find your current location.
• 	Terms of Service: View the terms of use for car mode.

135

Multimedia
Music
Playing music
Tap Music on the Apps screen.
Select a music category, and then select a song to play.
Search for other devices to play
the file.

Access additional options.
Adjust the volume.

Set the file as your favourite
song.
Turn on shuffle.

Change the repeat mode.

Open the playlist.

Add the song to a playlist.

Skip to the previous song. Tap
and hold to move backwards
quickly.

Skip to the next song. Tap and
hold to move forwards quickly.
Pause and resume playback.

136

Multimedia

To listen to songs at equal volume levels, tap → Settings → Smart volume.
When Smart volume is activated, the volume may end up louder than the device
volume level. Use caution to avoid long-term exposure to loud sounds to prevent
damage to your hearing.
Smart volume may not be activated for some files.
To set a personalised sound while listening to songs with a headset, tap → Settings →
Adapt Sound → On.
When you activate this option for the first time, tap Start to adjust the sound. The device
starts a series of sound tests to adjust the sound level and starts to beep. Tap Yes if you can
hear the beep or No if you cannot. Repeat this step for each test until the sound adjustment is
finished. Then, tick Music sound to apply the option when you listen to music.
When you turn the volume up to level 14 or higher, the adapt sound option is not
applied to music playback. If you turn the volume down to level 13 or lower, the
option is reapplied.

Setting a song as ringtone or alarm tone
To use the currently-playing song as a ringtone or an alarm tone, tap → Set as → From the
beginning or Auto recommendations, select an option, and then tap Done.

Creating playlists
Make an own selection of songs.
Tap Music on the Apps screen.
Tap Playlists → → Create playlist. Enter a title and tap OK. Tap
and then tap Done.
To add the currently-playing song to a playlist, tap

137

, select songs to include,

and select the playlist.

Multimedia

Playing music by mood
Use this feature to play music that suits your mood.
Tap Music on the Apps screen.
Tap Music square. Songs are automatically categorised by mood. Tap a mood cell or drag
multiple cells to listen to the music in the cells.
Song categories are based on available information about the song. Some songs may
not be categorised in mood cells.

Playing music stored on other devices
Search for music that is stored on other devices and play it on your device.
Tap Music on the Apps screen.

Accessing music on a registered device
Tap Devices and select a device in REGISTERED DEVICES to access and play music. You can
play the song on the devices that are registered to Samsung link. Visit link.samsung.com for
more information. Ensure that the registered devices are turned on and connected to a Wi-Fi
or mobile network.
You may incur additional charges when you view content stored on other devices via
the mobile network. To avoid additional charges, use the Wi-Fi feature.

Accessing music on a nearby device
Tap Devices and select a device in NEARBY DEVICES to access and play music. You can play
the song on the devices with content sharing feature activated.
To activate the feature, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Nearby devices, and then drag
the Nearby devices switch to the right. Refer to ‘Nearby devices‘ for more settings.

138

Multimedia

Video
Playing videos
Tap Video on the Apps screen.
Select a video to play.
Search for other
devices to play the
file.

Adjust the volume.
Access additional
options.

Move forwards or
backwards by
dragging the bar.

Pause and resume
playback.

Change screen ratio.

Switch to the
pop-up video player.

Skip to the previous
video. Tap and hold
to move backwards
quickly.

Skip to the next
video. Tap and hold
to move forwards
quickly.

To customise the control panel location during playback, tap → Settings, and then tick Mini
controller. Then, tap or to move the control panel to either side of the screen.
This feature is available only in landscape orientation.

Using the pop-up video player
Use this feature to use other apps without closing the video player. While watching videos,
to use the pop-up video player.
tap
Spread two fingers apart on the screen to enlarge the player or pinch to reduce it. To move
the player, drag the player to another location.

139

Multimedia

Capturing images
To use this feature, during playback, tap → Settings, tick Capture, and then tap Close.
Tap

to capture an image from the video during playback.

Sharing or deleting videos
Tap Video on the Apps screen.
Tap → Select, select videos, tap → Share via, and then select a sharing method.
Tap → Delete, select videos, and then tap Done.

Editing videos
Tap Video on the Apps screen.
Select a video, tap → Edit → Video trimmer. Move the start bracket to the desired starting
point, move the end bracket to the desired ending point, tap Done, enter a filename, and
then tap OK to save the video.
To edit videos using a video editor app, tap Video Editor.

Playing videos stored on other devices
Search for videos that are stored on other devices and play them on your device.
Tap Video on the Apps screen.

Accessing a video on a registered device
Tap Devices and select a device in REGISTERED DEVICES to access and play the video. You
can play the video on the devices that are registered to Samsung link. Visit link.samsung.com
for more information. Ensure that the registered devices are turned on and connected to a
Wi-Fi or mobile network.
You may incur additional charges when you view content stored on other devices via
the mobile network. To avoid additional charges, use the Wi-Fi feature.

140

Multimedia

Accessing a video on a nearby device
Tap Devices and select a device in NEARBY DEVICES to access and play the video. You can
play the video on devices that have the content sharing feature activated.
To activate the content sharing feature, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Nearby devices,
and then drag the Nearby devices switch to the right. Refer to ‘Nearby devices’ for more
settings.

YouTube
Use this app to watch videos from the YouTube website.
Tap YouTube on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Watching videos
Tap and select a category. To search for a video by entering a keyword, tap

.

Rotate the device to landscape orientation to display full screen.

Sharing videos
Select the video to view, tap

, and then select a sharing method.

Uploading videos
Tap → Uploads →

, select a video, enter information for the video, and then tap

141

.

Multimedia

Flipboard
Use this app to access your personalised magazines.
Tap Flipboard on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
To start your Flipboard, flick up on the greeting page, select news topics, and then tap Build
Your Flipboard.
Select a cover story or a topic, flick through the Flipboard pages, and then select an article to
read.

Google+
Use this app to stay connected with people via Google’s social network service.
Tap Google+ on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
Tap All to change the category, and then scroll up or down to view posts from your circles.

Photos
Use this app to manage photos, albums, and videos that you have saved on the device and
uploaded to Google+.
Tap Photos on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

142

Multimedia

Play Games
Use this app to download and play games.
Tap Play Games on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Play Music
Use this app to listen to music from the device or stream music from the Google cloud
service.
Tap Play Music on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Play Newsstand
Use this app to read the latest news articles.
Tap Play Newsstand on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

143

Security
Finger Scanner
For better fingerprint recognition
When you scan your fingerprints on the device, be aware of the following conditions that
may affect the feature’s performance:
• 	The Home button contains a fingerprint recognition sensor. Ensure that the Home button
is not scratched or damaged by metal objects, such as coins, keys, and necklaces.
• 	The screen protector supplied with the device may cause the fingerprint recognition
sensor to malfunction. Remove the screen protector to improve fingerprint sensitivity.
• 	Ensure that the fingerprint recognition area and your fingers are clean and dry.
• 	The device may not recognise fingerprints that are affected by wrinkles or scars.
• 	The device may not recognise fingerprints from small or thin fingers.
• 	To improve recognition performance, register fingerprints of the hand used most often to
perform tasks on the device.
• 	Do not drag your finger too quickly or slowly. Drag your finger at a moderate speed to
allow the device to recognise it.
• 	In dry environments, static electricity can build up in the device. Avoid using this feature
in dry environments or before using the feature, discharge static electricity by touching a
metal object.

144

Security

Registering fingerprints

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Finger Scanner → Fingerprint manager.
2	 If you are registering more fingerprints, a fingerprint recognition pop-up window
appears. Scan a registered fingerprint on the device and tap

.

3	 Place your finger on the fingerprint area at the bottom centre of the screen.
4	 Tap and hold the screen in the fingerprint area, and then drag your finger downwards
over the Home button.

Repeat this action using the same finger until the fingerprint is registered.
If you bend your finger or use a fingertip, the device may not recognise your
fingerprints.

5	 If a pop-up window appears requesting a password, enter the alternative password, tap

Continue, enter the alternative password again to verify it, and then tap OK. You can use
the alternative password instead of scanning your fingerprints.

6	 If a fingerprint lock pop-up window appears, tap OK → Fingerprint. You can use your
fingerprints to unlock the screen.

145

Security

Managing registered fingerprints
You can delete or rename your registered fingerprints.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Finger Scanner → Fingerprint manager.
To delete fingerprints, tap → Deregister, select fingerprints, and then tap
To rename a fingerprint, tap → Select, select a fingerprint, tap
name, and then tap OK.

→ OK.

, and then enter a new

Changing the alternative password
You can change the password that you use as an alternative to scanning your fingerprints.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Finger Scanner → Change alternative password.
2	 Enter the current alternative password and tap Continue.
3	 Enter a new password and tap Continue.
4	 Enter the password again and tap OK.
Unlocking the screen with fingerprints
You can unlock the screen with the registered fingerprints.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Finger Scanner → Screen lock → Fingerprint.
Alternatively, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Lock screen → Screen lock → Fingerprint.

146

Security

Verifying the Samsung account password
Use fingerprints to verify your Samsung account password. You can use a fingerprint instead
of entering your password, for example, when you purchase content from Samsung Apps.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Finger Scanner → Verify Samsung account, and then
drag the Verify Samsung account switch to the right. Enter your Samsung account password
and tap Confirm.

Using fingerprints for purchases via PayPal
You can make purchases by scanning your fingerprints.
This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Finger Scanner → Pay with PayPal.
2	 Tap Install next to FIDO Ready™ support.
3	 Tap Link next to PayPal account.
4	 Follow the on-screen instructions to sign in to the PayPal website and register your
fingerprints.

147

Security

Private mode
About private mode
Use this mode to prevent others from using or accessing specific content, such as images and
documents, stored on the device. You can save content to a specific location and deactivate
private mode to hide items securely.

Hiding content

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Private mode, and then drag the Private mode

switch to the right. Alternatively, open the quick setting panel and tap Private mode to
activate it.
When you activate private mode for the first time, set an unlock code and a backup PIN.

2	 Enter the private mode unlock code.
When this mode is activated,

appears at the top of the screen.

3	 To select items to hide, tap and hold an item in the list, tick items to select, and then tap
→ Move to Private, or tap Move → Private → Move here.
Items that are moved to private mode appear with

on them.

4	 When you have selected the items to hide, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Private

mode, and then drag the Private mode switch to the left. Alternatively, open the quick
setting panel and tap Private mode to deactivate it.
The selected items will disappear from the screen.
Ensure that all files are saved or moved properly before deactivating private mode.

148

Security

Viewing hidden content
You can only view hidden items when private mode is activated.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Private mode, and then drag the Private mode

switch to the right. Alternatively, open the quick setting panel and deactivate Private
mode.

2	 Enter the private mode unlock code.
3	 On the Apps screen, tap My Files → Private.

All items moved in private mode appear on the screen.

149

Safety
Emergency mode
About emergency mode
Use this mode to extend the device’s standby time when you are in an emergency situation.
When this mode is activated, the screen’s brightness decreases and battery consumption is
reduced by restricting some features. You can also turn on the flash, sound alarms, and send
your location information to others in a message.

Activating emergency mode
Press and hold the Power button, and then tap Emergency mode. Alternatively, on the
Apps screen, tap Settings → Safety assistance → Emergency mode, and then drag the
Emergency mode switch to the right.
You may incur additional charges for sending messages or using the mobile network.

150

Safety

Access additional options.

Turn on the flash.

Sound alarms.

Send your current location
information in a message.

Launch Phone.

Launch Internet.

Add more apps to use.

Remaining battery power and
estimated battery running time

Make an emergency call.

The maximum standby time is the estimated time that the device will maintain a
battery charge. The standby time is the time taken for the battery to fully discharge
if the device is not used. Standby time may vary depending on device settings and
operating conditions.

Deactivating emergency mode
To deactivate emergency mode, press and hold the Power button, and then tap Emergency
mode. Alternatively, tap → Disable Emergency mode. Emergency mode is deactivated.

151

Safety

Sending help messages
About sending help messages
You can preset contacts to send a message to in an emergency. Make calls or send messages
to your primary contacts by quickly pressing the Power button three times.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Safety assistance.

Adding primary contacts

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Safety assistance.
2	 Tap Manage primary contacts → Create primary contact.
3	 Tap Create new contact and enter contact information or tap Select from contacts to
add an existing contact as a primary contact.

Setting help messages
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Safety assistance → Send help messages, drag the
Send help messages switch to the right, and then select content to include in help messages.

Sending help messages
In an emergency situation, quickly press the Power button three times. The device sends
messages to your primary contacts. The messages include your location information.
You may incur additional charges for sending messages or using the mobile network.

152

Safety

Severe weather notification (Geo News)
About severe weather notification (Geo News)
Use this feature to receive notifications about severe weather conditions close to your current
location.
• 	The feature identifies your location and provides you with information about
disasters if they occur in your area. The information provided may differ depending
on the service provider in your current location.
To view information about severe weather conditions and the regions and
languages that the information is available in, visit www.samsung.com/geonews.
• 	You may incur additional charges if you receive notifications from a weather
forecasting service while you are roaming.

Setting severe weather notifications
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Safety assistance → Geo News, and then drag the Geo
News switch to the right.

Receiving notifications
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Safety assistance → Geo News, and then drag the Geo
News switch to the right.

Warning notifications
Tick Notification pop-ups.
If the weather conditions worsen, the device displays the notification in a pop-up window.
You can make an emergency call or send emergency messages to preset contacts from the
pop-up window.

153

Safety

Watch notifications
Notifications for less severe weather conditions appear on the status bar at the top of the
screen. The information provided is displayed in the Geo News widget.

Using the geo news widget
You can view your current location and information about disasters in your region in the Geo
News widget.
On the Home screen, scroll left and tap the Geo News widget.
Access additional
options.

Current location

Disaster information for
your current location.

154

Utilities
S Finder
Use this app to search for content on the device and via the Internet. You can apply various
filters and view the search history.
Open the notifications panel and tap S Finder.

Searching for content
Tap the search field and enter a keyword, or tap
To get more refined results, tap

and say a keyword.

and apply filters under the search field.

To update the list of search results, tap → Refresh.
You can set the search parameters using the available filters or select search categories. Tap
→ Settings → Select filters or Select search category.

Managing the search history
To delete the history, tap → Settings → Delete history.
To set the device not to save the search results, tap → Settings, and then deselect Save
search history.

155

Utilities

S Planner
Starting S Planner
Use this app to manage events and tasks.
Tap S Planner on the Apps screen.
Change view mode.

Access additional options.

Go to today's date.

Create events or tasks.

Tap and use the following:
• 	Go to: Move to a specific date.
• 	Delete: Delete events or tasks.
• 	Search: Search for events or tasks.
• 	Calendars: Select the calendars to display.
• 	Sync: Sync events and tasks with your accounts.
• 	Settings: Change settings for S Planner.

156

Utilities

Creating events or tasks

1	 Tap S Planner on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap . Alternatively, select a date with no events or tasks in it and tap the date again.
If the date already has saved events or tasks in it, tap the date and tap

.

3	 Select either event or task and enter details.
• 	Add event: Set a start and end date for an event. You can set an optional repeat
setting.
• 	Add task: Add a task to do on a specific date. You can set an optional priority setting.
Select an item.
Select a calendar to use or sync
with.

Enter a title.

Attach a map showing the
location of the event.
Set a start and end date for the
event.
Add more details.

4	 Tap Save to save the event or task.

157

Utilities

Syncing events and tasks with your accounts
Tap S Planner on the Apps screen.
To sync events and tasks with your accounts, tap → Sync.
To add accounts to sync with, tap → Calendars → Add account. Then, select an account
to sync with and sign in. When an account is added a green circle is displayed next to the
account name.
To change an account’s syncing option, tap Settings → Accounts, and then select an account
service.

Deleting events or tasks
Tap S Planner on the Apps screen.
To delete events or tasks, tap → Delete, select the events or tasks, and then tap Done.
To delete an event or task while viewing it, tap

→ OK.

To mark tasks as completed, tap a date that has tasks in it and tick completed tasks.

Sharing events or tasks
Tap S Planner on the Apps screen.
To share an event or task while viewing it, tap → Share via, and then select a sharing
method.

158

Utilities

Calculator
Use this app for simple or complex calculations.
Tap Calculator on the Apps screen.
Rotate the device to landscape orientation to display the scientific calculator. If Screen
rotation is disabled, tap → Scientific calculator.
To see the calculation history, tap
To clear the history, tap

to hide the keypad.

→ Clear history.

Clock
Alarm
On the Apps screen, tap Clock → Alarm.

Setting alarms
Tap in the alarms list, set an alarm time, select the days on which the alarm will repeat, set
other various alarm options, and then tap Save.
• 	Snooze: Set an interval and the number of times for the alarm to repeat after the preset
time.
• 	Smart alarm: Set a time and tone for the smart alarm. A smart alarm starts at a low
volume a few minutes before a preset alarm is scheduled to sound. The volume of the
smart alarm increases gradually until you turn it off or the preset alarm sounds.
To activate or deactivate alarms, tap next to the alarm in the alarms list.

Stopping alarms
Drag outside the large circle to stop an alarm. Drag
the alarm after a specified length of time.

159

outside the large circle to repeat

Utilities

Deleting alarms
Tap → Delete, select alarms, and then tap Done.

World clock
On the Apps screen, tap Clock → World clock.

Creating clocks
Tap

and enter a city name or select a city from the cities list.

To apply summer time, tap and hold a clock, and then tap

Deleting clocks
Tap → Delete, select clocks, and then tap Done.

Stopwatch
On the Apps screen, tap Clock → Stopwatch.
Tap Start to time an event. Tap Lap to record lap times.
Tap Stop to stop timing. To clear lap times, tap Reset.

Timer
On the Apps screen, tap Clock → Timer.
Set the duration, and then tap Start.
Drag

outside the large circle when the timer goes off.

160

.

Utilities

Drive
Use this app to access files stored in your Google Drive storage service. You can store all your
files in one place, access them from anywhere, and share them with others.
Tap Drive on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Dropbox
Use this app to save and share files with others via the Dropbox cloud storage. When you save
files to Dropbox, your device automatically syncs with the web server and any other devices
that have Dropbox installed.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

1	 Tap Dropbox on the Apps screen.
2	 Sign in to your Dropbox account. If you do not have it, create a Dropbox account.
3	 Tap Turn on Camera Upload.

The device uploads photos taken with the device’s camera to Dropbox. To upload videos,
drag the Include videos switch to the right.
To upload photos or videos manually, tap Skip this.

161

Utilities

4	 Use the following functions:
• 	 : Upload or open files. Tap → Upload here to upload files.
• 	 : View the uploaded photos or videos. Tap
albums.

to share or delete files, or create

• 	 : Open files in the favourites list.
• 	 : View notifications.

Google
Use this app to search the Internet. You can also use it to search for apps and app content
saved on the device or memory card.
Tap Google on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Searching the device
Tap the search field, and then enter a keyword. Alternatively, tap , and then say a keyword.

Google Now
View Google Now cards that show the current weather, public transit info, your next
appointment, and more when you are most likely to need it.
Join Google Now when you launch Google for the first time. To change Google Now settings,
tap → Settings, and then drag the Google Now switch to the left or right.

162

Utilities

Kids Mode
Use this widget to provide a fun and safe environment for children by restricting children’s
access to certain apps or content.
First, download and install the widget, and then, on the Home screen, tap Kids Mode →
Install. When the widget is installed, it appears on the Home and Apps screens.
To start kids mode, tap Kids Mode on the Home or Apps screen.
When you launch this widget for the first time, tap Set PIN at the bottom of the screen. Then,
follow the on-screen instructions.
If the Kids Mode widget is accidentally uninstalled from the Apps screen, you can add
the widget to the Home screen again. On the Home screen, tap and hold an empty
area, tap Widgets, tap and hold the Kids Mode widget, and then drag it to the Home
screen. Then, tap the widget to launch Kids Mode.

Kids mode Home screen
The Home screen is the starting point to access all of apps in kids mode.

Kids Gallery

Newly added apps

Kids Camera

Kids Drawing

Kids Media

Kids Voice Recorder

Exit kids mode.
Access parental control.

163

Utilities

Use this app to take photos or videos.

Use this app to create a drawing with a pen, a brush, and more.

Use this app to play video files. Before you use this app, add videos that are saved on the
device to the app.

Use this app to view saved images, drawings, voice recordings, and media files that you allow
your child to access.

Use this app to record or play voice recordings.

164

Utilities

Kids mode play area
Scroll right on the Home screen to open kids mode play area.
You can interact with characters, background objects, and more.

Parental control
Use this feature to set restrictions for kids mode to control access to content and apps. You
can change kids mode settings, usage time limits, and more.
On the Home screen, tap

and enter the PIN.

To exit parental control, press the Home button.

165

Utilities

Tap and use the following:
• 	Children’s name: View and edit children’s profile.
• 	Activity: View information about how your children use the device, such as playing
duration and frequently-used apps.
• 	Daily playtime limit: Set a time limit to manage your children’s usage.
• 	Applications: View and add apps that are allowed to be used in kids mode.
• 	Media: Allow your children to access certain images and videos saved on the device.
• 	General: Configure kids mode settings.
• 	Kids Store: Download apps for kids from Samsung Apps.

Magnifier
Use this widget to magnify text or objects with the rear camera.
To add it to the Home screen, on the Home screen, tap and hold an empty area, tap Widgets,
tap and hold the Magnifier widget, and then drag it to the Home screen.
Tap the Magnifier widget on the Home screen.
Tap

or

to adjust the magnification.

To focus on the centre of the screen, tap
where you want to focus.

. You can also adjust the focus manually by tapping

To turn on the flash to view text or objects in dark conditions, tap
To take a photo of text or objects, tap

.

166

.

Utilities

Maps
Use this app to pinpoint the location of the device, search for places, or get directions.
Tap Maps on the Apps screen.
This app may not be available depending on the region or service provider.

Searching for locations
Search for locations by entering an address or a keyword. Once the location is found, select a
location to view the detailed information. Refer to the help for more information.

Getting directions for a destination
Tap to set starting and ending locations, and then select a travel method. The device shows
the routes to get to the destination.

Memo
Use this app to record important information to save and view at a later date.
Tap Memo on the Apps screen.

Adding and managing categories
Create categories to sort and manage your memos.
On the memos list, tap

→ Manage categories.

To add a new category, tap
To delete a category, tap

, enter a category name, and then tap OK.
next to the category.

To rename a category, tap and hold a category name, enter a new name for the category, and
then tap OK.
To change the category order, tap
position.

next to a category and drag it up or down to another

167

Utilities

Composing memos
Tap on the memos list and enter a memo. While composing a memo, use the following
options:
• 	 : Create or set a category.
• 	 : Insert images.
• 	 : Make a voice recording to insert.
To save the memo, tap Done.
To edit a memo, tap a memo, and then tap the content of the memo.

Searching for memos
Tap

on the memos list and enter a keyword to search for memos that include the keyword.

Deleting memos
Tap → Delete, select memos, and then tap Done.
To delete the memo while viewing it, tap → Delete.

My Files
About My Files
Use this app to access all kinds of files stored in the device, including images, videos, songs,
and sound clips.
Tap My Files on the Apps screen.

168

Utilities

Viewing files
Tap My Files on the Apps screen.
Select a folder to open it. To go up a level in the directory, tap . To return to the My Files main
screen, tap .
Select a folder, tap , and then use one of the following options:
• 	Select: Select files or folders.
• 	Delete: Delete files or folders.
• 	Create folder: Create a folder.
• 	View mode: Change the view mode.
• 	Sort by: Sort files or folders.
• 	Add shortcut: Add a shortcut to the folder on the Home screen or the My Files main
screen.
• 	Settings: Change the file manager settings.
Tap and hold a file or folder, and then use one of the following options:
• 	 : Send files to others or share them.
• 	 : Delete files or folders.
• 	 → Move: Move files or folders to another folder.
• 	 → Copy: Copy files or folders to another folder.
• 	 → Rename: Rename a file or folder.
• 	 → Add shortcut: Add a shortcut of the folder to the Home screen or the My Files main
screen.
• 	 → Zip: Compress files or folders to create a zip file.
• 	 → Details: View file or folder details.

Searching for files or folders
Tap My Files on the Apps screen.
Tap

, and then enter search criteria to search for.

169

Utilities

Viewing storage information
Tap My Files on the Apps screen.
Tap

to view memory information for your device and memory card.

Adding FTP server shortcuts to the device
Add an FTP server shortcut to the shortcuts area.
Tap My Files on the Apps screen.
Tap → Add FTP server, enter details such as server address, user name, and password, and
then tap Done.

Torch
Use this widget to turn the flash on or off to improve visibility.
To add it to the Home screen, on the Home screen, tap and hold an empty area, tap Widgets,
tap and hold the Torch widget, and then drag it to the Home screen.
Tap the Torch widget on the Home screen to turn it on or off.

170

Connecting with other devices
NFC
About NFC
Your device allows you to read near field communication (NFC) tags that contain information
about products. You can also use this feature to make payments and buy tickets for
transportation or events after downloading the required apps.
The battery contains a built-in NFC antenna. Handle the battery carefully to avoid
damaging the NFC antenna.

Before using this feature
• 	Check the location of the NFC antennas on your device and the other device.
• 	Ensure that the NFC feature is activated on your device and the devices you want to
connect to.
• 	Ensure that the device’s screen is unlocked. Otherwise, the device will not read NFC tags
or receive data.

171

Connecting with other devices

Using the NFC feature
Use the NFC feature to send images or contacts to other devices, and read product
information from NFC tags. If you insert a SIM or USIM card that has a payment feature, you
can use the device to make payments conveniently.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → NFC, and then drag the NFC switch to the right.
Place the NFC antenna area on the back of your device near an NFC tag. The information from
the tag will appear.

Making a purchase with the NFC feature
Before you can use the NFC feature to make payments, you must register for the mobile
payment service. To register or get details about the service, contact your service provider.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → NFC, and then drag the NFC switch to the right.
Touch the NFC antenna area on the back of your device to the NFC card reader.
To set the default payment app, tap Tap and pay and select an app.
The payment services list may not include all available payment apps.

172

Connecting with other devices

Sending data
Use the Android Beam feature to send data, such as webpages and contacts, to NFC-enabled
devices.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → NFC, and then drag the NFC switch to the right.
2	 Tap Android Beam and drag the Android Beam switch to the right.
3	 Select an item and touch the other device’s NFC antenna to your device’s NFC antenna.
4	 When Touch to beam appears on the screen, tap your device’s screen to send the item.

Bluetooth
About Bluetooth
Bluetooth creates a direct wireless connection between two devices over short distances. Use
Bluetooth to exchange data or media files with other devices.
• 	Samsung is not responsible for the loss, interception, or misuse of data sent or
received via the Bluetooth feature.
• 	Always ensure that you share and receive data with devices that are trusted
and properly secured. If there are obstacles between the devices, the operating
distance may be reduced.
• 	Some devices, especially those that are not tested or approved by the Bluetooth
SIG, may be incompatible with your device.
• 	Do not use the Bluetooth feature for illegal purposes (for example, pirating copies
of files or illegally tapping communications for commercial purposes).
Samsung is not responsible for the repercussion of illegal use of the Bluetooth
feature.

173

Connecting with other devices

Before using this feature
• 	Ensure that the Bluetooth feature is activated on your device and the devices you want to
connect to.
• 	Ensure that both devices are set as visible to other Bluetooth devices.

Pairing with other Bluetooth devices

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Bluetooth, drag the Bluetooth switch to the right,
and then tap Scan. Detected devices are listed.

To set the device as visible to other devices, tap the device name.

2	 Select a device to pair with.

If your device has paired with the device before, tap the device name without confirming
the auto-generated passkey.

3	 Accept the Bluetooth authorisation request on both devices to confirm.
Sending and receiving data
Many apps support data transfer via Bluetooth. You can share data, such as contacts or media
files, with other Bluetooth devices. The following actions are an example of sending an image
to another device.

Sending an image

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Gallery.
2	 Select an image.

174

Connecting with other devices

3	 Tap

→ Bluetooth, and then select a device to pair with.

If the device you want to pair with is not on the list, request that the device turns on its
visibility option. Or, set your device as visible to other devices.

4	 Accept the Bluetooth authorisation request on the other device.
Receiving an image
When another device sends you an image, accept the Bluetooth authorisation request. The
received image is saved in the Gallery → Download folder.

Unpairing Bluetooth devices

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Bluetooth.

The device displays the paired devices on the list.

2	 Tap next to the device’s name to unpair.
3	 Tap Unpair.

175

Connecting with other devices

S Beam
Use this feature to send data, such as videos, images, and documents.

Before using this feature
• 	Ensure that the NFC feature or Wi-Fi Direct is activated on your device and the devices
you want to send files to.

Sending data

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → NFC, and then drag the NFC switch to the right.
2	 Tap S Beam and drag the S Beam switch to the right.
3	 Select a file and touch the other device’s NFC antenna to your device’s NFC antenna.
4	 When Touch to beam appears on the screen, tap your device’s screen to send the file.
• 	Do not send copyright-protected data via S Beam. Doing so may violate copyright
laws. Samsung is not responsible for any liabilities caused by the illegal use of
copyrighted data.
• 	If both devices try to send data simultaneously, the file transfer may fail.

176

Connecting with other devices

Quick connect
About Quick connect
Use this feature to easily search and connect to nearby devices. You can use the device as a
remote control by connecting it to a TV. You can also conveniently share content stored on
your device with computers.
• 	Connection methods may vary depending on the type of connected devices or the
shared content.
• 	Device name may vary depending on the Bluetooth devices to pair with. For
example, the device name can be shown as BT MAC.

Before using this feature
• 	Ensure that devices to be connected support the Quick connect feature and that their
screens are turned on.
• 	Ensure that Wi-Fi Direct or the Bluetooth feature is activated on devices that do not
support the Quick connect feature.

Connecting to other devices

1	 Open the notifications panel and tap Quick connect.

When the panel opens, the Bluetooth feature is activated automatically and the device
searches for nearby devices.

2	 Select a device to connect to.

The next steps may vary depending on the connected device. Follow the on-screen
instructions to complete the connection between the devices.
To allow nearby devices to search for your device and connect to it, tap → Always ready
to connect, and then drag the Always ready to connect switch to the right.

177

Connecting with other devices

Re-searching for devices
If the desired device does not appear in the list, search for the device.
Tap

and select the device from the list of detected devices.

Disconnecting devices
To deactivate the Quick connect feature, tap
.

at the top of the screen. Alternatively, tap

Sharing content
Share content with the connected devices.

1	 Open the notifications panel and tap Quick connect.
2	 Select a device from the list of detected devices.
3	 Select a media category.
4	 Select the content to share and tap Done.

Your device sends the content to the connected device.

Connecting to a TV
Connect the device to a TV and control the TV by using the device as a remote control.

Before using this feature
• 	Ensure that the TV is turned on.
• 	Ensure that your device and the TV are connected to the same network.
• 	Ensure that the TV is registered to the WatchON feature.
• 	Install the WatchON app on the device. You can download the app from Samsung Apps
or Play Store.

178

Connecting with other devices

1	 Open the notifications panel and tap Quick connect.
2	 Tap Control from the list of detected devices.

When the device is connected to the TV, a remote control layout appears on the screen.
When you connect the device to a TV for the first time, tap Set up Remote control. Then,
follow the on-screen instructions to complete connecting the devices.

3	 Control the connected TV using the remote control.
Joining Group Play
Share content with other devices by using the Group Play feature.

Before using this feature
• 	Search for or join a created session or create a new session.
• 	Install the Group Play app on both devices. You can download the app from Samsung
Apps or Play Store.

1	 Open the notifications panel and tap Quick connect.
2	 Tap Join from the list of detected devices.

Only devices that support Group Play sessions appear on the list.

3	 Select a Group Play session to join.
4	 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the connection between the devices.

179

Connecting with other devices

Exploring computers
Launch the Samsung Link app to use content saved on remotely connected computers. To
use this feature, sign in to your Samsung account.

Before using this feature
• 	Ensure that all devices using this feature are connected to the same network.
• 	Ensure that all computers that the device will connect to are registered with the Samsung
Link app.
• 	Ensure that the Samsung Link app is installed on both devices. You can download the
app from Samsung Apps or Play Store.

1	 Open the notifications panel and tap Quick connect.
2	 Tap Connect from the list of detected devices.
Only available computers appear on the list.

3	 Select a computer to connect to.
4	 Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the connection between the devices.

180

Connecting with other devices

Smart Remote
About Smart Remote
Use this app to connect to a TV and use the device as a remote control. You can search for and
select TV programmes and control channels with your device.
Tap Smart Remote on the Apps screen.

Before using this app
• 	Ensure that you connect the device to a network.
• 	Ensure that the device’s infrared port is facing the TV.

Connecting to a TV

1	 Tap Smart Remote on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap Select country or region and select a country.
3	 Select a region and select the broadcast service.
The available TV programmes appear.

181

Connecting with other devices

Using the device as a remote control
You can turn the TV on or off, browse channels, or adjust the volume level on the TV using the
device as a remote control.

1	 On the device, tap → Continue.
2	 Select the TV brand.
3	 Ensure that the device’s infrared port is facing the TV and tap

. Then, tap Yes, this code

1 works if the device turns off the TV.

If the device does not turn off the TV, tap Send this code 1 again or No, test next code 2,
and then repeat this until the TV recognises the signal.

4	 Select a channel source.
5	 When the setup is completed, tap

.
Access additional options.

Turn the TV on or off.

TV control menus

Additional functions

182

Connecting with other devices

Watching TV using the device
Select a TV programme from the list of available programmes to watch on the connected TV.

1	 Tap → TV shows, Movies, or Sports and scroll left or right to select a category.
2	 Select a TV programme and tap Watch now.
The selected programme will be shown on the connected TV.

3	 Tap

to change channels or adjust the volume.

The remote control panel appears on the screen.

Setting programme reminders

1	 Select a TV programme to watch.
2	 Tap Reminder, set an alarm to remind you of the TV programme’s start time, and then tap
Done.

The alarm goes off at the preset time.

183

Connecting with other devices

Screen mirroring
About Screen mirroring
Use this feature to connect your device to a large screen with an AllShare Cast dongle or
HomeSync and then share your contents. You can also use this feature with other devices that
support the Wi-Fi Miracast feature.

Screen Mirroring
-enabled devices
(AllShare Cast dongle,
HomeSync, and Wi-Fi
Miracast devices)

• 	This feature may not be available depending on the region or service provider.
• 	Miracast-enabled devices that do not support High-bandwidth Digital Content
Protection (HDCP 2.X) may not be compatible with this feature.
• 	Some files may be buffered during playback, depending on the network
connection.
• 	To save energy, deactivate this feature when not in use.
• 	If you specify a Wi-Fi frequency, AllShare Cast dongles or HomeSync may not be
discovered or connected.
• 	If you play videos or games on a TV, select an appropriate TV mode to get the best
experience.

184

Connecting with other devices

Before using this feature
• 	Ensure that the screen mirroring-enabled device is connected to the TV using an HDMI
cable.
• 	Ensure that the TV is turned on.

Viewing content on a TV
Before you connect a TV to your device, connect the TV and the screen mirroring-enabled
device. To set up the connection, refer to the device’s user manual. The following actions are
an example of viewing content on a TV connected via an AllShare Cast dongle.

1	 On the TV, select a connection mode, such as HDMI mode, to connect an external device.
2	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Screen mirroring.
The detected devices are listed.

3	 Select a device to connect to.

Your device’s screen appears on the TV screen.
If you connect the device for the first time, tap and hold the dongle’s name on the list and
enter the PIN shown on the TV screen.

4	 Open or play a file, and then control the display with the keys on your device.
Stopping viewing the content
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Screen mirroring, and then drag the Screen mirroring
switch to the left.

185

Connecting with other devices

Using the mobile printing feature
Connect the device to a printer to print images or documents.
Some printers may not be compatible with the device.

Before using this feature
• 	Ensure that the Wi-Fi feature or Wi-Fi Direct is activated on your device and the printer.

Connecting to a printer
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Printing → HP Print Service Plugin or Samsung Print
Service Plugin, and then drag the switch at the top right of the screen. The device searches
for printers that are connected to the same Wi-Fi network as your device. Select a printer to
use as the default printer.
To add printers manually, tap → Add printer →

, enter details, and then tap OK.

To change printing settings, tap → Printing settings.

Printing content
While viewing content, such as images or documents, tap → Print, and then select a printer.

186

Device & data manager
Upgrading the device
The device can be upgraded to the latest software.

Upgrading over the air
The device can be directly upgraded to the latest software by the firmware over-the-air
(FOTA) service.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → About device → Software update → Update.

Upgrading with Samsung Kies
Download the latest Samsung Kies from the Samsung website. Launch Samsung Kies and
connect the device to the computer. Samsung Kies automatically recognises the device and
shows available updates in a dialogue box, if any. Click the Update button in the dialogue box
to start upgrading. Refer to the Samsung Kies help for details on how to upgrade.
• 	Do not turn off the computer or disconnect the USB cable while the device is
upgrading.
• 	While upgrading the device, do not connect other media devices to the computer.
Doing so may interfere with the update process.

187

Device & data manager

Transferring files between the device and a
computer
Move audio, video, image, or other types of files from the device to the computer, or vice
versa.
• 	Do not disconnect the USB cable from the device when you are transferring files.
Doing so may cause data loss or device damage.
• 	Do not disconnect the device from the computer when you play files saved in the
device on the connected computer. After you finish playing the file, disconnect the
device from the computer.
• 	The devices may not connect properly if they are connected via a USB hub. Directly
connect the device to the computer’s USB port.

Connecting as a media device

1	 Connect the device to the computer using the USB cable.
2	 Open the notifications panel, and then tap Connected as a media device → Media
device (MTP).

Tap Camera (PTP) if your computer does not support Media Transfer Protocol (MTP) or
not have any appropriate driver installed.

3	 Transfer files between your device and the computer.

188

Device & data manager

Connecting with Samsung Kies
Samsung Kies is a computer app that manages media contents and personal information
with Samsung devices. Download the latest Samsung Kies from the Samsung website.

1	 Connect the device to the computer using the USB cable.

Samsung Kies launches on the computer automatically. If Samsung Kies does not launch,
double-click the Samsung Kies icon on the computer.

2	 Transfer files between your device and the computer.

Refer to the Samsung Kies help for more information.

Backing up and restoring data
Keep your personal information, app data, and settings safe on your device. You can back up
your sensitive information to a backup account and access it later or restore apps without
reinstalling them.

Using a Google account

1	 Tap Settings on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap Backup and reset and tick Back up my data.
3	 Tap Backup account and select an account as the backup account.
To restore data, sign in to your Google account on the setup wizard. If you perform a
factory data reset to the device, it will restart and opens the setup wizard. If you sign
in to your Google account not on the setup wizard, the device will not restore the
backup data.

189

Device & data manager

Using a Samsung account

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accounts → Add account → Samsung account,
and then sign into your Samsung account.

2	 Tap Settings on the Apps screen.
3	 Tap Cloud → Backup, tick the items to back up, and then tap Back up now → Back up.
To restore data, tap Restore, select the items to restore, and then tap Restore now.

Performing a data reset
Delete all settings and data on the device. Before performing a factory data reset, ensure you
back up all important data stored on the device. Refer to ‘Backing up and restoring data’ for
details.

1	 Tap Settings on the Apps screen.
2	 Tap Backup and reset → Factory data reset.
3	 Tap Reset device → Erase everything.
The device automatically restarts.

190

Settings
About Settings
Use this app to configure the device, set app options, and add accounts.
Tap Settings on the Apps screen.
To search for settings by entering keywords, tap

.

QUICK SETTINGS
View the list of your favourite settings options.
To edit the list of favourite settings options, tap → Edit quick settings, select a settings
option, and then tap Save.

NETWORK CONNECTIONS
Wi-Fi
Activate the Wi-Fi feature to connect to a Wi-Fi network and access the Internet or other
network devices.
On the Settings screen, tap Wi-Fi, and then drag the Wi-Fi switch to the right.
You can maintain a stable network connection by automatically selecting either the Wi-Fi or
mobile network to use the strongest signal. To automatically switch between networks, tick
Smart network switch.

191

Settings

To use options, tap .
• 	Scan: Search for available networks.
• 	Wi-Fi Direct: Activate Wi-Fi Direct and connect devices directly via Wi-Fi to share files.
• 	Advanced: Customise Wi-Fi settings.
• 	WPS push button: Connect to a secured Wi-Fi network with a WPS button.
• 	WPS PIN entry: Connect to a secured Wi-Fi network with a WPS PIN.
• 	Help: Access help information for Wi-Fi.

Setting Wi-Fi sleep policy
Tap → Advanced → Keep Wi-Fi on during sleep.
When the screen is turned off, the device automatically turns off Wi-Fi connections.
When this happens, the device automatically accesses mobile networks if it is set
to use them. This may incur data transfer fees. To avoid additional charges, set this
option to Always.

Setting Network notification
The device can detect open Wi-Fi networks and display an icon on the status bar to notify
when available.
Tap → Advanced and tick Network notification to activate this feature.

Wi-Fi Direct
Wi-Fi Direct connects devices directly via a Wi-Fi network without requiring an access point.
Tap → Wi-Fi Direct.

192

Settings

Download booster
Set the device to download files via both Wi-Fi and mobile networks at the same time.
On the Settings screen, tap Download booster, and then drag the Download booster switch
to the right.
You may incur additional charges when downloading files via the mobile network.
• 	Do not show speed info: Set the device not to display the data transfer speed in a popup window while using download booster mode.

Bluetooth
Activate the Bluetooth feature to exchange information over short distances.
On the Settings screen, tap Bluetooth, and then drag the Bluetooth switch to the right.
To use more options, tap .
• 	Visibility timeout: Set duration that the device is visible.
• 	Received files: View received files via the Bluetooth feature.
• 	Rename device: Change the device name.
• 	Help: Access help information for Bluetooth.

Tethering and mobile hotspot
Use the device as a mobile hotspot to share the device’s mobile data connection with other
devices. Refer to ‘Tethering devices and using mobile hotspots‘ for details.
On the Settings screen, tap Tethering and mobile hotspot.
• 	Mobile hotspot: Use the mobile hotspot to share the device’s mobile data connection
with computers or other devices through the Wi-Fi network. You can use this feature
when the network connection is not available.

193

Settings
• 	USB tethering: Use USB tethering to share the device’s mobile data connection with
a computer via USB. When connected to a computer, the device is used as a wireless
modem for the computer.
• 	Bluetooth tethering: Use Bluetooth tethering to share the device’s mobile data
connection with computers or other devices via Bluetooth.

Flight mode
This disables all wireless functions on your device. You can use only non-network services.
On the Settings screen, tap Flight mode.

Data usage
Keep track of your data usage amount and customise the settings for the limitation.
On the Settings screen, tap Data usage.
• 	Mobile data: Set the device to use data connections on any mobile network.
• 	Set mobile data limit: Set a limit for mobile data usage.
• 	Data usage cycle: Set a monthly reset date to monitor data usage between periods.
To use more options, tap .
• 	Data roaming: Set the device to use data connections when you are roaming.
• 	Restrict background data: Set the device to disable sync in the background while using
a mobile network.
• 	Auto sync data: Activate or deactivate auto-syncing of apps. You can select what
information to sync for each account in Settings → Accounts.
• 	Show Wi-Fi usage: Set the device to show your data usage via Wi-Fi.
• 	Mobile hotspots: Select mobile hotspots to prevent apps that are running in the
background from using them.

194

Settings

Location
Change settings for location information permissions.
On the Settings screen, tap Location, and then drag the Location switch to the right.
• 	Mode: Select a method to collect your location data.
• 	RECENT LOCATION REQUESTS: View which apps request your current location
information and their battery usage.
• 	LOCATION SERVICES: View the location services your device is using.
• 	My places: Set up profiles that will be used for specific locations when you use GPS, Wi-Fi,
or Bluetooth features to find your current location.

More networks
Customise settings to control networks.
On the Settings screen, tap More networks.

Default messaging app
Select the default app to use for messaging.

Mobile networks
• 	Mobile data: Set the device to use data connections on any mobile network.
• 	Data roaming: Set the device to use data connections when you are roaming.
• 	Access Point Names: Set up access point names (APNs).
• 	Network mode: Select a network type.
• 	Network operators: Search for available networks and select a network for roaming.

VPN
Set up and connect to virtual private networks (VPNs).

195

Settings

CONNECT AND SHARE
NFC
Activate the NFC feature to read or write NFC tags that contain information.
On the Settings screen, tap NFC, and then drag the NFC switch to the right.
• 	Android Beam: Turn on the Android Beam feature to send data, such as webpages and
contacts, to NFC-enabled devices.
• 	S Beam: Activate the S Beam feature to send data, such as videos, images, and
documents, to devices that support NFC and Wi-Fi Direct.
• 	Tap and pay: Set the default payment app for mobile payments.
The payment services list may not include all available payment apps.

Nearby devices
Change settings for sharing content when you connect the device to nearby devices.
On the Settings screen, tap Nearby devices, and then drag the Nearby devices switch to the
right.
• 	DEVICE NAME: View the media server name for your device.
• 	Shared contents: Set the device to share your content with other devices.
• 	Allowed devices: View the list of devices that can access your device.
• 	Not-allowed devices list: View the list of devices that are blocked from accessing your
device.
• 	Download to: Select a memory location for saving media files.
• 	Upload from other devices: Set the device to accept uploads from other devices.

Printing
Configure settings for printer plug-ins installed on the device. You can search for available
printers or add one manually to print files via Wi-Fi or cloud services.
On the Settings screen, tap Printing.

196

Settings

Screen mirroring
Activate the screen mirroring feature and share your display with others.
On the Settings screen, tap Screen mirroring.

SOUND AND DISPLAY
Sound
Change settings for various sounds on the device.
On the Settings screen, tap Sound.
• 	Sound mode: Set the device to use sound mode or silent mode.
• 	Volume: Adjust the volume level for call ringtones, music and videos, system sounds, and
notifications.
• 	Vibration intensity: Adjust the force of the vibration notification.
• 	Ringtones: Add or select a ringtone for incoming calls.
• 	Vibrations: Add or select a vibration pattern.
• 	Notifications: Select a ringtone for events, such as incoming messages and missed calls.
• 	Vibrate when ringing: Set the device to vibrate and play a ringtone for incoming calls.
• 	Dialling keypad tone: Set the device to sound when you tap the buttons on the keypad.
• 	Touch sounds: Set the device to sound when you select an app or option on the touch
screen.
• 	Screen lock sound: Set the device to sound when you lock or unlock the touch screen.
• 	Haptic feedback: Set the device to vibrate when you tap keys.
• 	Sound when tapped: Set the device to sound when a key is touched.
• 	Vibrate when tapped: Set the device to vibrate when a key is touched.
• 	SAMSUNG APPLICATIONS: Change the notification settings for each app.
• 	Music effects: Select a sound effect to apply when you adjust to music.

197

Settings

Display
Change the settings for the display.
On the Settings screen, tap Display.
• 	Brightness: Set the brightness of the display.
• 	Font:
– – Font style: Change the font type for display text.
– – Font size: Change the font size.
• 	Screen rotation: Set the content to rotate automatically when the device is turned.
• 	Smart stay: Set the device to prevent the display backlight from turning off while you are
looking at the display.
• 	Screen timeout: Set the length of time the device waits before turning off the display’s
backlight.
• 	Screen mode:
– – Adapt Display: Use this mode for optimising the display according to the display
settings.
– – Dynamic: Use this mode to make the display tone more vivid.
– – Standard: Use this mode for normal surroundings.
– – Professional photo: Use this mode to make the display tone look like real colours.
– – Cinema: Use this mode for dim surroundings, such as in a dark room.
• 	Auto adjust screen tone: Set the device to save power by adjusting the brightness of the
display.
• 	Daydream: Set the device to launch a screensaver when your device is connected to a
desktop dock or charging.

198

Settings
• 	LED indicator:
– – Charging: Set the device to turn on the notification light while you are charging the
battery.
– – Low battery: Set the device to turn on the notification light when the battery is low.
– – Notifications: Set the device to turn on the notification light when you have missed
calls, messages, or notifications.
– – Voice recording: Set the device to turn on the notification light when you record
voice memos.
• 	Touch key light duration: Set the duration that the Recent apps and Back buttons’
backlight remains on.
• 	Increase touch sensitivity: Set the device to respond to touch when you are wearing
gloves.
Depending on the type of material you wear while touching the device, some
commands may not be recognised.

Wallpaper
Change the settings for the wallpaper.
On the Settings screen, tap Wallpaper.
• 	Home screen: Select a background image for the Home screen.
• 	Lock screen: Select a background image for the locked screen.
• 	Home and lock screens: Select a background image for the Home screen and the locked
screen.

Lock screen
Change settings for the locked screen.
On the Settings screen, tap Lock screen.
• 	Screen lock: Activate the screen lock feature. The following options may vary depending
on the screen lock feature selected.
• 	Dual clock: Set the device to show the dual clock.

199

Settings
• 	Clock size: Change the size of the clock.
• 	Show date: Set the device to show the date with the clock.
• 	Camera shortcut: Set the device to show the camera shortcut on the locked screen.
• 	Owner information: Enter your information that is shown with the clock.
• 	Unlock effect: Select an effect that you see when you unlock the screen.
• 	Additional information: Set the device to display information on the locked screen to
display weather, upcoming events, or step counts when you use the walking mate in S
Health.
• 	Help text: Set the device to show the help text on the locked screen.

Multi window
Set the device to use Multi Window.
On the Settings screen, tap Multi window, and then drag the Multi window switch to the
right.
• 	Open in multi window view: Set the device to activate the Multi Window feature when
you open files from My Files or Video. Also, the device activates this feature when you
view attachments in messages.

Notification panel
Customise the items that appear on the notifications panel.
On the Settings screen, tap Notification panel.
• 	Brightness adjustment: Set the device to display the brightness adjustment bar on the
notifications panel.
• 	Recommended apps: Set the device to display a list of recommended apps on the
notifications panel based on your actions, such as connecting a headset to the device.
• 	Set quick setting buttons: Rearrange the quick setting buttons displayed on the
notifications panel.

200

Settings

Toolbox
Set the device to use the toolbox.
On the Settings screen, tap Toolbox, and then drag the Toolbox switch to the right.
• 	APPLICATIONS: View the apps list to display in the toolbox.
• 	Edit: Select the apps to display in the toolbox.

One-handed operation
Activate one-handed operation mode for your convenience when using the device with one
hand.
On the Settings screen, tap One-handed operation, and then drag the One-handed
operation switch to the right.

PERSONALISATION
Easy mode
Set the device to easy mode.
On the Settings screen, tap Easy mode.
• 	Standard mode: Set the device to standard mode.
• 	Easy mode: Set the device to easy mode.
• 	EASY APPLICATIONS: Select apps to apply simpler layouts.

Accessibility
You can use this feature to access settings to improve accessibility to the device. Refer to
‘Accessibility’ for details.
On the Settings screen, tap Accessibility.

201

Settings

Blocking mode
Select which notifications will be blocked or set to allow notifications for calls from specified
contacts in blocking mode.
On the Settings screen, tap Blocking mode, and then drag the Blocking mode switch to the
right.

Private mode
Set the device to prevent others from accessing your personal content by activating private
mode.
On the Settings screen, tap Private mode, and then drag the Private mode switch to the
right.
• 	Unlock method: Set or change the unlock method to activate private mode.

Finger Scanner
Register your fingerprint to the device to secure the device or sign in to your Samsung
account.
On the Settings screen, tap Finger Scanner.
• 	Fingerprint manager: Register or delete fingerprint information.
• 	Change alternative password: Change the alternative password to use if the device does
not recognise the fingerprint.
• 	Screen lock: Set an unlock method and an alternative password.
• 	Verify Samsung account: Set the device to verify your Samsung account with
fingerprints.
• 	Pay using PayPal: Set the device to verify your PayPal account and to authorise purchases
using your fingerprints.

202

Settings

MOTION
Motions and gestures
Activate the motion recognition feature and change the settings that control motion
recognition on your device.
On the Settings screen, tap Motions and gestures.
• 	Air browse: Move your hand to the left or right across the sensor to browse images,
webpages, or songs.
• 	Direct call: Set the device to make a voice call by picking up and holding the device near
your ear while viewing call, message, or contact details.
• 	Smart alert: Set the device to alert you if you have missed calls or new messages when
you pick up the device.
• 	Mute/Pause: Set the device to mute incoming calls or alarms, or to pause media playback
by using palm motions or looking away from the screen.
– – Covering screen with hand: Set the device to mute incoming calls or alarms, or to
pause media playback when you cover the screen with your palm.
– – Turning device over: Set the device to mute incoming calls or alarms, or to pause
media playback by placing the device face down.
– – Smart pause: Set the device to pause video playback when you look away from the
screen.
• 	Capture screen: Set the device to capture an image of the screen when you sweep your
hand to the left or right across the screen.

Air view
Preview content or view information in a pop-up window by pointing at an item with your
finger.
On the Settings screen, tap Air view, and then drag the Air view switch to the right.

203

Settings

USER AND BACKUP
Accounts
Add email or SNS accounts.
On the Settings screen, tap Accounts.

Cloud
Change settings for syncing data or files with your Samsung account or Dropbox cloud
storage.
On the Settings screen, tap Cloud.

Backup and reset
Change the settings for managing settings and data.
On the Settings screen, tap Backup and reset.
• 	Back up my data: Set the device to back up settings and app data to the Google server.
• 	Backup account: Set up or edit your Google backup account.
• 	Automatic restore: Set the device to restore settings and app data when the apps are
reinstalled on the device.
• 	Factory data reset: Reset settings to the factory default values and delete all data.

204

Settings

SYSTEM
Language and input
Change the settings for text input. Some options may not be available depending on the
selected language.
On the Settings screen, tap Language and input.

Language
Select a display language for all menus and apps.

Default
Select a default keyboard type for text input.

Samsung keyboard
To change the Samsung keyboard settings, tap

.

The available options may vary depending on the region or service provider.
• 	English(UK): Select a default keyboard layout.
• 	Select input languages: Select languages for text input.
• 	Predictive text: Activate predictive text mode to predict words based on your input and
show word suggestions. You can also customise the word prediction settings.
• 	Auto replacement: Set the device to correct misspelled and incomplete words by
tapping the space bar or punctuation mark.
• 	My Shortcuts: Set number shortcuts to frequently-used text. You can tap and hold a
number key to insert the preset text.
• 	Auto capitalisation: Set the device to automatically capitalise the first character after a
final punctuation mark, such as a full stop, question mark, or exclamation mark.
• 	Auto spacing: Set the device to automatically insert a space between words.
• 	Auto-punctuate: Set the device to insert a full stop when you double-tap the space bar.

205

Settings
• 	Keyboard swipe:
– – None: Set the device to deactivate the keyboard swipe feature.
– – Continuous input: Set the device to enter text by sweeping on the keyboard.
– – Cursor control: Enable the smart keyboard navigation feature to move the cursor by
scrolling the keyboard.
– – Flick input: Enable or disable the keyboard to enter numbers or symbols when you
tap and hold a key, and then flick your finger upwards.
• 	Sound: Set the device to sound when a key is touched.
• 	Vibration: Set the device to vibrate when a key is touched.
• 	Character preview: Set the device to display a large image of each character tapped.
• 	Tap and hold delay: Set the recognition time for tapping and holding the screen.
• 	Reset settings: Reset Samsung keyboard settings.

Google voice typing
To change the voice input settings, tap

.

• 	Choose input languages: Select input languages for text input.
• 	Block offensive words: Set the device to prevent the device from recognising offensive
words in voice inputs.
• 	Offline speech recognition: Download and install language data for offline voice input.

Voice search
• 	Language: Select a language for the voice recognition.
• 	Speech output: Set the device to provide voice feedback to alert you to the current
action.
• 	Block offensive words: Hide offensive words from voice search results.
• 	Hotword detection: Set the device to begin voice recognition when you say the wake-up
command while using the search app.
• 	Offline speech recognition: Download and install language data for offline voice input.
• 	Bluetooth headset: Set the device to allow a voice search with a Bluetooth headset,
when one is connected to the device.

206

Settings

Text-to-speech options
• 	PREFERRED TTS ENGINE: Select a speech synthesis engine. To change the settings for
speech synthesis engines, tap .
• 	Speech rate: Select a speed for the text-to-speech feature.
• 	Listen to an example: Listen to the spoken text for an example.
• 	Default language status: View the status of the default language for the text-to-speech
feature.

Notification readout
Set the device to read aloud notifications when you have incoming calls, messages, or events.

Pointer speed
Adjust the pointer speed for the mouse or trackpad connected to your device.

Date and time
Access and alter the following settings to control how the device displays the time and date.
On the Settings screen, tap Date and time.
If the battery remains fully discharged or removed from the device, the time and date
is reset.
• 	Automatic date and time: Automatically update the time and date when moving across
time zones.
• 	Set date: Set the current date manually.
• 	Set time: Set the current time manually.
• 	Automatic time zone: Set the device to receive time zone information from the network
when you move across time zones.
• 	Select time zone: Set the home time zone.
• 	Use 24-hour format: Display time in 24-hour format.
• 	Select date format: Select a date format.

207

Settings

Safety assistance
Activate emergency mode and set primary contacts and messages. Refer to ‘Emergency
mode’ for details.
On the Settings screen, tap Safety assistance.
• 	Emergency mode: Set the device to activate emergency mode and reduce battery
consumption by using basic functions, such as calling.
• 	Geo News: Set the device to receive alerts for natural disaster forecasts.
• 	Send help messages: Set the device to send help messages by pressing the Home
button three times.
– – Send pictures: Set the device to send photos taken by the front and rear cameras with
the help message.
– – Send sound recording: Set the device to record sound and send it along with the
message to the recipients.
• 	Manage primary contacts: Select or edit the recipients for help messages.

Accessories
Change the accessory settings.
On the Settings screen, tap Accessories.
• 	Audio output: Select a sound output format to use when connecting your device to
HDMI devices. Some devices may not support the surround sound setting.

Battery
View the amount of battery power consumed by your device.
On the Settings screen, tap Battery.
• 	Display battery percentage: Set the device to display the remaining battery life.

208

Settings

Power saving mode
Activate power-saving mode and change the settings for power-saving mode. Refer to ‘Using
the power saving feature’ for details.
On the Settings screen, tap Power saving mode.
• 	Power saving mode: Activate power-saving mode and change the settings for powersaving mode.
– – Block background data: Set the device to prevent apps that are running in the
background from using a mobile data connection.
– – Restrict performance: Set the device to limit various options, such as turning off the
Recent apps and Back buttons’ backlight.
– – Greyscale mode: Set the device to display colours on the screen as grey tones.
• 	Ultra power saving mode: Extend standby time and reduce battery consumption by
displaying a simpler layout and allowing limited access to an app.
The maximum standby time is the estimated time that the device will maintain a
battery charge. The standby time is the time taken for the battery to fully discharge
if the device is not used. Standby time may vary depending on device settings and
operating conditions.

Storage
View memory information for your device and memory card, or format a memory card.
On the Settings screen, tap Storage.
Formatting a memory card permanently deletes all data from it.
The actual available capacity of the internal memory is less than the specified
capacity because the operating system and default apps occupy part of the memory.
The available capacity may change when you upgrade the device.

209

Settings

Security
Change settings for securing the device and the SIM or USIM card.
On the Settings screen, tap Security.
• 	Encrypt device: Set a password to encrypt data saved on the device. You must enter the
password each time you turn on the device.
Charge the battery before enabling this setting because it may take more than an
hour to encrypt your data.
• 	Encrypt external SD card: Set the device to encrypt files on a memory card.
If you reset your device to the factory defaults with this setting enabled, the device
will not be able to read your encrypted files. Disable this setting before resetting the
device.
• 	Remote controls: Set the device to allow control of your lost or stolen device remotely
via the Internet. To use this feature, you must sign in to your Samsung account.
– – ACCOUNT REGISTRATION: Add or view your Samsung account.
– – Use wireless networks: Set the device to allow location data collection or to
determine the location of your lost or stolen device via Wi-Fi or mobile networks.
• 	SIM change alert: Activate or deactivate the Find my mobile feature which helps locate
the device when lost or stolen.
• 	Go to website: Access the Find my mobile website (findmymobile.samsung.com). You
can track and control your lost or stolen device on the Find my mobile website.
• 	Reactivation lock: Set the device to require your Samsung account after the device has
been reset to prevent others from reactivating the device.
• 	Set up SIM card lock:
– – Lock SIM card: Activate or deactivate the PIN lock feature to require the PIN before
using the device.
– – Change SIM PIN: Change the PIN used to access SIM or USIM data.

210

Settings
• 	Make passwords visible: Set the device to display passwords as they are entered.
• 	Device administrators: View device administrators installed on the device. You can allow
device administrators to apply new policies to the device.
• 	Unknown sources: Choose to install apps from any source. If not chosen, download apps
only from Play Store.
• 	Verify apps: Set the device to allow Google to check the apps for harmful behaviour
before installing them.
• 	Security policy updates: Set the device to check and download security updates.
• 	Send security reports: Set the device to send the updated security reports to Samsung
automatically.
• 	Storage type: Set a storage type for credential files.
• 	Trusted credentials: Use certificates and credentials to ensure secure use of various apps.
• 	Install from device storage: Install encrypted certificates stored on the USB storage.
• 	Clear credentials: Erase the credential contents from the device and reset the password.

Help
Access help information to learn how to use the device and apps or configure important
settings.
On the Settings screen, tap Help.

About device
Access device information, edit the device name, or update device software.
On the Settings screen, tap About device.

211

Settings

APPLICATIONS
Application manager
View and manage the apps on your device.
On the Settings screen, tap Application manager.

Default applications
Select a default setting for using apps.
On the Settings screen, tap Default applications.
• 	Home: Select a default Home screen mode.
• 	Message: Select a default app to use for messaging.

Call
Customise the settings for calling features.
On the Settings screen, tap Call.
• 	Call rejection: Reject calls from specified phone numbers automatically. Add phone
numbers to the reject list.
• 	Answering and ending calls:
– – Pressing the home key: Set the device to answer a call when you press the Home
button.
– – Using voice commands: Set the device to answer or reject a call with voice
commands.
– – Waving hand over device: When a call comes in, move your hand to the left, and then
to the right across the sensor to answer the call.
– – Pressing the power key: Set the device to end a call when pressing the Power button.

212

Settings
• 	Call notification pop-ups: Set the device to display a pop-up window when you receive
an incoming call while using apps.
• 	In-call status pop-ups: Set the device to display a pop-up window that shows the status
of a call while using apps.
• 	Show caller information: Set the device to display the caller’s recent social networking
activity when a call comes in.
• 	Call alerts:
– – Vibrate when answered: Set the device to vibrate when the other party answers a
call.
– – Vibrate when call ends: Set the device to vibrate when the other party ends a call.
– – Call connect tone: Activate or deactivate the call connection tone.
– – Minute minder: Activate or deactivate the minute minder tone.
– – Call end tone: Activate or deactivate the call disconnection tone.
– – Notify during calls: Set the device to alert you to events during a call.
• 	Call accessories:
– – Automatic answering: Set the device to answer a call automatically after a specified
period (available only when a headset is connected).
– – Automatic answering timer: Set the length of time the device waits before answering
a call.
– – Outgoing call conditions: Set the device to allow outgoing calls with a Bluetooth
headset, even when your device is locked.
– – Outgoing call types: Select the type of outgoing calls to make you use a Bluetooth
headset.

213

Settings
• 	More settings:
– – Caller ID: Display your caller ID to other parties for outgoing calls.
– – Call forwarding: Divert incoming calls to another number.
– – Auto area code: Set the device to insert a prefix (area or country code) automatically
before a phone number.
– – Call barring: Block incoming or outgoing calls.
– – Call waiting: Allow incoming call alerts when a call is in progress.
– – Auto redial: Activate auto redial for calls that were not connected or that were cut off.
– – Fixed Dialling Numbers: Activate or deactivate FDN mode to restrict calls to numbers
in the FDN list. Enter the PIN2 supplied with your SIM or USIM card.
• 	Ringtones and keypad tones:
– – Ringtones: Add or select a ringtone for incoming calls.
– – Vibrations: Add or select a vibration pattern.
– – Vibrate when ringing: Set the device to vibrate and play a ringtone for incoming calls.
– – Dialling keypad tone: Set the device to sound when tapping the buttons on the
keypad.
• 	Personalise call sound: Select a type of call sound to use with a headset.
• 	Noise reduction: Set the device to remove background noise so that the other party can
hear you more clearly.
• 	Hide my video: Select an image to be shown to the other party.
• 	Service provider: Select or set your voicemail service provider.
• 	Voicemail settings: Enter the number to access the voicemail service. Obtain this number
from the service provider.
• 	Ringtones: Select a ringtone for new voicemails.
• 	Vibrate: Set the device to vibrate when voicemails are received.
• 	Accounts: Set the device to accept IP calls and set up your accounts for IP call services.
• 	Use Internet calling: Set whether to use IP call services for all calls or only for IP calls.

214

Settings

Contacts
Change settings for using contacts.
On the Settings screen, tap Contacts.
• 	Import/export: Import or export contacts.
• 	Contacts to display: Select which contacts to display.
• 	Swipe to call or send msg: Set the device to make a call or send a message when you
sweep your hand to the left or right across the screen while you are viewing a contact.
• 	Only contacts with phones: Set the device to display contacts that only have a phone
number listed.
• 	Sort by: Select an option for sorting contacts.
• 	Display contacts by: Select an option for displaying contact names.
• 	Send contact information: Select a method to share contacts.
• 	Accounts: Add or edit the account to sync contacts with.

Email
Change the following settings for managing and sending emails.
On the Settings screen, tap Email.
• 	Manage accounts: Manage existing email accounts or add new accounts.
• 	Display: Change the settings for displaying emails.
• 	Default display: Set the device to open a specific screen after you delete emails.
• 	Priority sender settings: Change settings for priority senders.
• 	Spam addresses: Add email addresses to block.
• 	Delay email sending: Set the time the device waits before sending emails after you tap
the send button.

215

Settings

Gallery
Change settings for using Gallery.
On the Settings screen, tap Gallery.
• 	Sync only via Wi-Fi: Set the device to sync content only when the Wi-Fi connection is
activated.
• 	Dropbox sync: Set the device to sync content in your Dropbox with your Samsung
account.
• 	Filter by: Select the categories for sorting images. When you take a photo, it is sorted into
a category automatically based on the categories you set.
• 	Tag buddy: Set the device to display contextual tags.
• 	Face tag: Register the faces in the image as face tags.

Internet
Change settings for using Internet.
On the Settings screen, tap Internet.
• 	Account: Sign in to a Samsung account.
• 	Set homepage: Set a default home page.
• 	Autofill forms: Set the device to automatically enter user information, such as names or
phone numbers when you fill out forms on webpages.
• 	Privacy: Manage personal data when visiting webpages.
• 	Screen and text: Change the settings, adjust the font size, and more when viewing
webpages.
• 	Content settings: Change the settings for managing cookies from visiting webpages or
set whether or not to display pop-up windows, and more.
• 	Bandwidth management: Change the bandwidth settings.

216

Settings

Messages
Change the following settings for using messages.
On the Settings screen, tap Messages.
• 	Default messaging app: Select the default app to use for messaging.
• 	Display: Change settings for the messaging window, such as the font size, background
colour, and more.
• 	Quick responses: Add or edit the message template.
• 	Text messages: Change settings for text messages.
• 	Multimedia messages: Change settings for multimedia messages.
• 	Delete old messages: Set the device to delete old messages.
• 	Priority senders: Set the device to show priority senders list.
• 	Push messages: Set an interval for pop-up notifications that alert you to new messages.
• 	Cell broadcast: Set the device to receive cell broadcast messages.
• 	Notifications: Set the device to alert you to new messages.
• 	Signature: Set the device to display your signature on the message.
• 	Spam filter: Set the device to block messages from specific numbers or that contain
certain words.
• 	Delay message sending: Set the time the device waits before sending messages after
you tap the send button.
• 	Safe mode:
– – Allow access to all links: Set the device to allow to open the link on a message when
you tap the link.
– – Potential threat alerts: Set the device to alert you when you install apps that support
messaging feature to prevent phishing.

217

Settings

S Planner
Change settings for using S Planner.
On the Settings screen, tap S Planner.
• 	First day of week: Select the first day of a week.
• 	Lock time zone: Set the device to leave the time zone setting unchanged when moving
across time zones.
• 	Select time zone: Select the time zone.
• 	View today according to: Set the calendar to use your home time zone or a selected time
zone.
• 	Show week numbers: Set the device to display the number of weeks in a year.
• 	Hide declined events: Set the device to hide expired events.
• 	Hide completed tasks: Set the device to hide completed tasks.
• 	Weather: Set the device to display the weather forecast.
• 	Select alert type: Select the notification settings for events.
• 	Notification sound: Select a ringtone for events or tasks.
• 	Vibration: Set the device to vibrate to alert you to events or tasks.
• 	Quick responses: Create templates for sending messages to event participants.

S Voice
Change settings for the voice recognition.
• 	Language: Select a language for the voice recognition.
• 	Hide offensive words: Hide offensive words from voice search results.
• 	About: View version information.
• 	Open via the home key: Set the device to launch S Voice when you press the Home
button twice.
• 	Voice wake-up: Set the device to start voice recognition by saying a wake up command
while using S Voice.
• 	Auto start speakerphone: Set the device to automatically turn on the speakerphone
when making a call with S Voice.

218

Settings
• 	Show body of message: Set the device to display the text of a new message.
• 	Check missed events: Set the device to check missed calls, messages, or events when S
Voice is launched by pressing the headset button.
• 	Personal briefing: Set the device to display events saved in S Planner while you use S
Voice.
• 	Home address: Enter your home address to use location information with the voice
command feature.
• 	Log in to Facebook: Enter your Facebook account information to use Facebook with S
Voice.
• 	Log in to Twitter: Enter your Twitter account information to use Twitter with S Voice.

Google Settings
Use this app to configure settings for some features provided by Google.
Tap Google Settings on the Apps screen.

219

Accessibility
Accessibility
Accessibility menus are special features for those with certain physical disabilities, such as
poor eyesight or hearing impairment. You can use the following features:
• 	TalkBack
• 	Changing the font size
• 	Magnifying the screen
• 	Notification reminders
• 	Reversing the display colours
• 	Colour adjustment
• 	Turning off all sounds
• 	Flash notification
• 	Adjusting the sound balance
• 	Mono audio mode
• 	Customising caption settings
• 	Auto haptic
• 	Baby monitor
• 	Assistive menus
• 	Air gesture feature
• 	Smart scroll feature
• 	Setting tap and hold delay options
• 	Interaction control mode
• 	Changing the method for answering or ending calls
• 	Single tap mode
• 	Configuring accessibility settings
To use accessibility menus, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility.

220

Accessibility

Using the Home button to open accessibility
menus
You can access the following accessibility menus by pressing the Home button three times
quickly.
• 	Accessibility
• 	TalkBack
• 	Negative colours
• 	Interaction control
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Direct access, and then drag the Direct
access switch to the right. Then, select an accessibility menu to open when you press the
Home button three times quickly.
If you select more than one menu, the device displays a pop-up window asking which menu
to use each time you press the Home button three times quickly. To enable Interaction
control on the accessibility menus, activate the feature. On the Apps screen, tap Settings
→ Accessibility → Dexterity and interaction → Interaction control, and then drag the
Interaction control switch to the right.

TalkBack
Activating or deactivating TalkBack
When you activate TalkBack, the device reads aloud the text on the screen or selected
features. This feature is useful if you cannot see or have difficulty viewing the screen.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → TalkBack.
2	 Drag the TalkBack switch to the right.
To deactivate TalkBack, drag the TalkBack switch to the left.

3	 Tap OK.

221

Accessibility
When you activate TalkBack, the device provides voice feedback and reads aloud the features
you select. Also, the device provides voice feedback when the screen turns off, when you
have new notifications, and more.
When you activate Explore by touch while using TalkBack, the device reads selected items
aloud. Firstly, the device reads aloud items on the screen when you tap them. Then, the
device will perform the function or open the app if you tap anywhere on the screen twice
quickly. If Explore by touch is deactivated, the device cannot perform various features that
require finger gestures.
To activate Explore by touch, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision →
TalkBack → Settings, and then tick Explore by touch.
Some features are not available while you are using TalkBack.

Controlling the screen with finger gestures
You can use various finger gestures to control the screen while you are using TalkBack. If
Explore by touch is deactivated, the device cannot perform some of the features that require
finger gestures.
To activate Explore by touch, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision →
TalkBack → Settings, and then tick Explore by touch.
• 	Exploring the screen: Place a finger on the screen and move your finger to explore the
screen. Select and hold on an item and the device reads aloud the item. When you
release your finger, the item under your finger is selected.
• 	Selecting items: Tap an item to select it. Or, select and hold on an item while exploring
the screen, and then release your finger.
• 	Opening the selected item: While selected items are read aloud, when you hear the item
you want, release your finger from the item. Then, tap anywhere on the screen twice
quickly.
• 	Selecting the previous item: Scroll quickly upwards or to the left on the screen with one
finger.

222

Accessibility
• 	Selecting the next item: Scroll quickly downwards or to the right on the screen with one
finger.
• 	Scrolling the lists: Scroll the screen upwards or downwards with two fingers.
• 	Returning to the previous page: Scroll the screen to the right with two fingers.
• 	Moving to the next page: Scroll the screen to the left with two fingers.
• 	Unlocking the screen: Scroll the screen in any direction within the locked screen area with
two fingers.
• 	Opening notifications panel: Drag the top of the screen downwards with two fingers.
• 	Opening quick setting panel: Drag the top of the screen downwards with three fingers.
You can configure finger gesture settings for TalkBack in Manage gestures. Refer to
‘Configuring finger gesture settings’ for details.

Configuring finger gesture settings
When you use TalkBack, you can perform actions using finger gestures. You can perform
actions such as, returning to the previous screen, opening the Home screen, and more.
Configure finger gestures before using them.

Configuring settings for vertical gestures
You can use two-part vertical gestures by dragging your finger upwards and downwards from
the bottom of the screen, or vice versa.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → TalkBack → Settings →
Manage gestures → Two-part vertical gestures. Then, select one of the following features:
• 	Move to the first and last items on screen: When you drag your finger upwards and
then downwards on the screen, the first item at the top of the screen is selected. When
you drag your finger downwards and then upwards on the screen, the last item at the
bottom of the screen is selected.
• 	Cycle through reading granularities: When you drag your finger upwards and then
downwards on the screen, the reading unit changes. The reading unit changes to page,
paragraph, line, word, character, and default. When you drag your finger downwards and
then upwards on the screen, the reading units change in reverse order.

223

Accessibility

Configuring settings for shortcut gestures
Use this feature to configure eight shortcut gestures. You can configure gestures such as,
dragging your finger upwards and then to the right without releasing it, and more. You can
change shortcut gestures or assign features to empty shortcuts.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → TalkBack → Settings →
Manage gestures. Select a gesture, and then assign a feature to it.
The following features are available:
• 	Back button: Return to the previous screen.
• 	Home button: Open the Home screen.
• 	Recent apps button: Open the list of recently-used apps.
• 	Open notifications: Open the notifications panel.
• 	Open global context menu: Open the global contextual menu. Tap and hold the
screen to open the circular global contextual menu. You can use features, such as Quick
navigation, Read from top, Spell last utterance, and Read from next item. Then,
explore menus by drawing a circle with your finger without releasing it. When you find
the menu you want, release your finger from the menu to select it.
Tap Pause feedback at the top left of the screen to pause voice feedback.
Tap TalkBack Settings at the top right of the screen to access the TalkBack settings. Refer
to ‘Configuring settings for TalkBack’ for details.
• 	Open local context menu: Open the local contextual menu. You can select a unit for
reading text on the screen. When you use this feature while entering text, contextual
menus, such as the cursor control menu, are available. Tap and hold the screen to open
the circular contextual menu. Then, explore menus by drawing a circle with your finger
without releasing it. When you find the menu you want, release your finger from the
menu to select it.
• 	Read from top: Read items aloud from the first item to the last item in order.
• 	Read from next item: Read items aloud starting from the item next to the selected item
in order.

224

Accessibility

Changing reading units
When you use TalkBack, you can listen to the text on the screen. You can drag your finger up,
down, left, or right to select the text you want. By default, the device reads text aloud in the
selected area. Or, you can set the device to read text in other reading units, such as lines or
paragraphs.

Changing reading units by using the local contextual menu

1	 Select some text to read.
2	 Drag your finger upwards, and then to the right without releasing it to open the local
contextual menu.

3	 Tap and hold the screen and draw a circle with your finger to explore menus. Then,
release your finger when you hear Change granularity.

4	 Tap and hold the screen again and draw a circle with your finger to explore menus. Then,
release your finger when you hear the reading unit you want.

To change the shortcut gesture to open the local contextual menu, refer to ‘Configuring
settings for shortcut gestures’.

Changing reading units using two-part vertical gestures
When you drag your finger upwards and then downwards on the screen, the reading unit
changes. The reading unit changes to page, paragraph, line, word, character, and then default.
When you drag your finger downwards and then upwards on the screen, the reading units
change in reverse order.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → TalkBack → Settings →
Manage gestures → Two-part vertical gestures → Cycle through reading granularities.
You can listen to the text next to the currently-selected text using the current reading unit.
To listen to the next section of text, drag you finger downwards or to the right on the screen.
Also, you can listen to the text before the currently-selected text using the current reading
unit. To listen to the previous section of text, drag your finger upwards or to the left on the
screen.

225

Accessibility

Pausing voice feedback
Open the global contextual menu by dragging your finger downwards and then to the right
on the screen without releasing it. When you select Pause feedback at the top left of the
screen, voice feedback pauses.
When voice feedback is paused, you can resume it by turning on the screen or other methods.
To change the method for resuming voice feedback, on the Apps screen, tap Settings →
Accessibility → Vision → TalkBack → Settings → Resume from suspend. Then, select an
option.
To change the shortcut gesture to open the global contextual menu, refer to ‘Configuring
settings for shortcut gestures’.

Using the quick navigation feature
With the quick navigation feature, you can access menus by drawing a circle on the screen
without scrolling up or down to select an item.
Open the global contextual menu by dragging your finger downwards and then to the right
on the screen without releasing it. Tap and hold the screen and draw a circle around the
menu with your finger to explore the menus. Then, release your finger when you hear Quick
navigation. Tap the screen again and draw a circle around the menu with your finger to
explore the menus. Then, release your finger when you hear the menu you want.

Adding and managing image labels
You can assign labels to images on the screen. The device reads aloud the labels when the
images are selected. Add labels to unlabelled images by using the local contextual menu.
Open the local contextual menu by dragging your finger upwards and then to the right on
the screen without releasing it. Tap and hold the screen and a draw a circle around the menu
with your finger to explore the menus. When you hear the add label menu, release your finger
to add labels.
To view the labels, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → TalkBack
→ Settings → Manage customised labels.

226

Accessibility

Configuring settings for TalkBack
Configure settings for TalkBack for your convenience.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → TalkBack → Settings.
Alternatively, open the global contextual menu by dragging your finger downwards and then
to the right on the screen without releasing it. Then, drag your finger to the top right of the
screen and release it when you hear TalkBack Settings.
• 	Speech volume: Adjust the volume level for voice feedback.
Voice feedback volume can vary depending on the media volume. To adjust the media
volume, press the Volume button up or down while listening to voice feedback. Or, on the
Apps screen, tap Settings → Sound → Volume, and then drag the volume adjustment
bar for the media content to the left or right.
• 	Use pitch changes: Set the device to read aloud text at a low pitch when it is entered
using a keyboard.
• 	Keyboard echo: Set the device to read aloud text or symbols entered using a keyboard.
You can also set the type of keyboard to apply this feature to.
• 	Speak when screen is off: Set the device to provide voice feedback when the screen is
turned off.
• 	Use proximity sensor: Set the device to pause voice feedback when you place your hand
over the sensor at the top of the device. To resume voice feedback, tap the screen.
• 	Shake to start continuous reading: Set the device to read aloud the text displayed on
the screen when you shake the device. You can select from various shaking speeds.
• 	Speak caller ID: Set the device to read the caller’s name aloud when you have an
incoming call.
• 	Vibration feedback: Set the device to vibrate when you explore the screen.
• 	Sound feedback: Set the device to emit a sound when you control the screen, such as
scrolling the screen, and more.

227

Accessibility
• 	Focus speech audio: Set the device to turn the media volume down when the device
reads an item aloud.
• 	Sound volume: Adjust the volume that sound is played when you touch the screen to
control it. This feature is available when Sound feedback is selected.
• 	Explore by touch: Set the device to read aloud the items under your finger. For example,
when you tap Apps on the Home screen with your finger, the device reads out “Apps”. To
select Apps, release your finger from it and tap anywhere on the screen twice quickly. You
can move to the page you want by scrolling the screen left or right with two fingers. To
learn about controlling the screen using the explore by touch feature, refer to ‘Controlling
the screen with finger gestures’ for details.
• 	Automatically scroll lists: Set the device to automatically scroll through the rest of the
list not displayed on the screen and read the items aloud.
• 	Single-tap selection: Set the device to open the selected item by tapping it once.
• 	Launch “Explore by touch” tutorial: View the tutorial about using the Explore by touch
feature.
• 	Manage gestures: Assign actions to perform using finger gestures. Refer to ‘Configuring
finger gesture settings’ for details.
• 	Manage customised labels: View the labels you added.
• 	Resume from suspend: Select a method to resume voice feedback.
• 	Developer settings: Set options for app development.

Using the device with the screen turned off
Set the device to turn the screen off at all times to keep the content on your screen private.
The screen does not turn on when you press external buttons or tap the screen. Also,
currently-activated features do not turn off.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision, and then tick Dark screen. You
can activate or deactivate this feature by pressing the Power button twice.

228

Accessibility

Using the rapid key input feature
Set the device to enter a character when you release your finger from the character on the
keyboard. You can use this feature to enter characters instead of releasing your finger and
double-tapping on the screen.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision, and then tick Rapid key input.

Reading passwords aloud
Set the device to read the password aloud when you enter the password while TalkBack is
activated. Use this feature to make sure that you are entering the right password.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision, and then tick Speak passwords.

Setting text-to-speech features
Change the settings for text-to-speech features used when TalkBack is activated, such as
languages, speed, and more.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → Text-to-speech options, and
then use the following functions:
• 	Samsung text-to-speech engine / Google Text-to-speech engine: Select an engine for
the text-to-speech feature.
• 	Speech rate: Select a speed for the text-to-speech feature.
• 	Listen to an example: Listen to the spoken text for an example. If the device cannot read
examples aloud, tap → Install voice data to download and install voice data for the
text-to-speech feature.
• 	Default language status: View the status of the current language set for the text-to
speech feature.

229

Accessibility

Entering text using the keyboard
To display the keyboard, tap the text input field, and then tap anywhere on the screen twice
quickly.
When you touch the keyboard with your finger, the device reads aloud the character buttons
under your finger. When you hear the character you want, release your finger from the screen
to select it. The character is entered and the device reads the text aloud.
If Rapid key input is not activated, release your finger from the character you want, and then
tap anywhere on the screen twice quickly. To activate the rapid input feature, on the Apps
screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision, and then tick Rapid key input.

Entering additional characters
Tap and hold a button on the keyboard. If additional characters are available via the button,
a pop-up window appears above the keyboard showing the characters. To select a character,
drag you finger on the screen until you hear the character you want, and then release it.

Changing keyboard input language
To add input languages, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Language and input. Then, tap
next to Samsung keyboard → Select input languages, and then select languages.
To change the keyboard input language while entering text, tap and hold
a language.

, and then select

Editing text
Use the local contextual menu to move the cursor or copy and paste text.
Open the local contextual menu by dragging your finger upwards and then to the right on
the screen without releasing it. Tap and hold the screen and draw a circle around the menu
with your finger to explore the menu. Then, release your finger when you hear Change
granularity. Tap the screen again and draw a circle around the menu to explore the menus.
Then release your finger when you hear the reading unit you want.
When you edit text, set the reading unit to either word or character for your convenience. In
selection mode, the device selects text according to the reading unit you selected.

230

Accessibility
Drag your finger up, down, left, or right to listen to the text. When the text you want to edit is
read aloud, use the following actions:
• 	Deleting text: Tap the delete button on the keyboard.
• 	Selecting text using selection mode: Activate selection mode to select and listen to
the text. To activate selection mode, open the local contextual menu and select Cursor
control → Start selection mode. Scroll to the left or right to listen to the text before
or next to the currently-selected text. To deactivate selection mode, open the local
contextual menu and select Cursor control → End selection mode.
• 	Selecting entire text: Open the local contextual menu and select Cursor control →
Select all. All text in the document will be selected.
• 	Copying or cropping text: Select text using the local contextual menu. Then, open the
local contextual menu and select Cursor control. Select Copy to copy the selected text or
select Cut to cut the selected text. The selected text is copied to the clipboard.
• 	Pasting text: Place the cursor at the point where the text should be inserted, open the
local contextual menu, and then select Cursor control → Paste.

Entering text by voice
You can enter text by voice. To display the keyboard, tap the text input field, and then tap
anywhere on the screen twice quickly.
When you tap and hold , the device displays a pop-up window showing the keyboard
options. Drag your finger on the screen without releasing it. When is selected, release your
finger. Then, say the words that you want to enter in the text field. The spoken words appear
as text on the screen and the device reads them aloud.
To enter additional text, select the microphone button and say the words.

Changing the input language
While entering text by voice, select English (UK) and select a language to change the input
language.
To add languages to the list, select English (UK) → Add more languages, deselect
Automatic, and then select languages you want.

231

Accessibility

Reading aloud information from documents or images
Take photos of documents or business cards and extract and read text from them. The
device also reads colour and pattern information aloud when you take photos of coloured or
patterned images. Access Samsung Apps, and download and install Optical Reader.
Tap Optical Reader on the Apps screen.
To select the languages to recognise, select → Language settings.

Using document mode
The default mode of this app is document mode. When you are using colour/pattern
mode, select to switch to document mode. In document mode, when you take photos of
documents or business cards, the device displays the extracted text.
Place an object on a flat surface and select . When TalkBack is activated, the device
automatically reads the text on the screen aloud after taking a photo.
To extract text from a stored image, select → Load image.
To read aloud the text on the screen when TalkBack is deactivated, select → Text-to-speech.

Using colour/pattern mode
To use colour/pattern mode, activate TalkBack.
Select to switch to colour/pattern mode. In colour/pattern mode, the device displays the
colour and pattern information of objects when you take photos. The device identifies items,
such as commonly-used colours and patterns. This mode helps visually impaired users to
select the colours or patterns they want.
Capture the object within the device viewfinder and select . The device takes a photo and
identifies the object’s colour and pattern. When the device finishes identifying the object, it
automatically reads aloud the object’s colour and pattern information.
The colour information results may vary depending on the light conditions. Ensure
that you take photos in colour and pattern mode in bright conditions.

232

Accessibility

Changing the font size
Use this feature to change the font size. The device provides various font sizes to make the
device more convenient for visually impaired users. Setting the font size to Huge may not be
available in some apps.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → Font size.

Magnifying the screen
Use this feature to magnify the screen and to zoom in on a specific area.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → Magnification gestures, and
then drag the Magnification gestures switch to the right.
• 	Zooming in and out: Tap the screen three times quickly to zoom in on a specific area. Tap
the screen three times quickly again to return.
• 	Exploring the screen by scrolling: Use two fingers to scroll through the magnified screen.
• 	Adjusting zoom ratio: Tap the screen with two fingers on the magnified screen. Then,
spread two fingers apart or pinch them together to adjust the ratio.
• 	Keyboards on the screen cannot be magnified.
• 	When this feature is activated, the performance of some apps, such as Phone and
Calculator, may be affected.

Setting notification reminders
Use this feature to alert you to notifications that you have not checked at the interval.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → Notification reminder, and
then drag the Notification reminder switch to the right.
To set an interval between alerts, tap Reminder interval.

233

Accessibility

Reversing the display colours
Use this feature to improve screen visibility and to help users recognise text on the screen
more easily. When this feature is activated, the device displays a negative image that reverses
the colours on the screen. Reversing the colours increases the contrast between black and
white.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision, and then tick Negative colours.

Colour adjustment
Use this feature to adjust how colours are displayed on the screen if you have difficulty in
distinguishing colours. The device changes the colours into more recognisable colours.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Vision → Colour adjustment.
2	 Drag the Colour adjustment switch to the right.
3	 Tap Start.
4	 Arrange the colour tiles in order of similarity, starting from the base colour.
5	 When you are finished adjusting the colours, tap Done.
If you can distinguish the colours, no more adjustment is required.

6	 If the colours cannot be distinguished, tap Camera or Image.
7	 Drag the colour adjustment bar to the left or right and tap Done.
To readjust the colour, tap → Readjust colour.

234

Accessibility

Setting flash notification
Set the flash to blink when you have incoming calls, new messages, or notifications.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Hearing, and then tick Flash
notification.

Turning off all sounds
Set the device to mute all device sounds, such as media sounds, including the caller’s voice
during a call.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Hearing, and then tick Turn off all
sounds.

Customising caption settings
Samsung caption
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Hearing → Samsung subtitles (CC),
and then drag the Subtitles (CC) switch to the right.
Use the following options:
• 	Alignment: Change the position of the caption.
• 	Font: Change the font type.
• 	Size: Change the font size.
• 	Edge: Change the edge of the subtitle text.
• 	Font: Adjust the transparency and change the colour of the text.
• 	Background: Adjust the transparency and change the colour of the caption box
background.
• 	Caption window: Adjust the transparency and change the colour of the caption window.

235

Accessibility

Google caption
On the Apps screen, Settings → Accessibility → Hearing → Google subtitles (CC), and then
drag the Google subtitles (CC) switch to the right.
Use the following options:
• 	Language: Select a display language for the caption.
• 	Text size: Change the font size.
• 	Caption style: Change the caption style.

Adjusting the sound balance
Set the device to adjust the sound balance when using a dual headset.
To adjust the sound balance, connect a dual headset to the device. On the Apps screen, tap
Settings → Accessibility → Hearing → Sound balance. Drag the adjustment bar to the left
or right and adjust the sound balance, and then tap Set.

Using mono audio
Set the device to enable mono sound when you listen to audio with one earbud. You can
use this mode if you have hearing impairments or in situations when a single earbud is more
convenient.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Hearing, and then tick Mono audio.

Using baby crying detector
Set the device to detect a baby crying and alerts you by vibrating.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Hearing → Baby crying detector, and
then drag the Baby crying detector switch to the right.
Tap to activate the sound detection feature. When the device detects sounds, it vibrates. To
set the flash blinks for detecting sound, tap → Settings, and then tick Flash notification.

236

Accessibility

Using auto haptic
Set the device to vibrate when playing sounds in downloaded apps, such as games.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Hearing, and then tick Auto haptic.
Some apps may not support this feature.

Using the assistive menus
Displaying the assistive shortcut icon
Set the device to display the assistive shortcut icon. You can use the icon to access apps,
features, and settings by tapping assistive menus in the icon. Control the device by tapping
the assistive menus in the icon without exploring the screen. When this feature is launched,
Single tap mode is activated.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Dexterity and interaction →
Assistant menu.

2	 Drag the Assistant menu switch to the right.

The assistive shortcut icon appears at the bottom right of the screen.

3	 Tap Dominant hand to move the assistive shortcut icon to a convenient location.
Accessing assistive menus
The assistive shortcut icon appears as a floating icon to provide easy access to the assistive
menus from any screen.
When you tap the assistive shortcut icon, the icon expands slightly and the assistive menus
appear on the icon. Tap the up or down arrow to move to other panels or scroll the screen up
or down to select other menus.

237

Accessibility

Using the cursor
On the assistive menu, tap Cursor. A cursor and a touch area where the cursor can be
controlled are displayed on the screen. You can control the screen using small finger
movements on the touch area. Drag your finger on the touch area to move the cursor. Also,
tap the screen to select items under the cursor.
Use the following options:
• 	 /

: Select an item or scroll left or right on the screen.

• 	 /

: Scroll up or down the screen.

• 	 : Move the touch area to another location.
• 	 : Close the touch area.
To change the cursor settings, on the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Dexterity
and interaction → Assistant menu, drag the Assistant menu switch to the right, and then
use options under TOUCHPAD AND CURSOR SEETTINGS.

Using enhanced assistive menus
Set the device to display enhanced assistive menus for selected apps. For example, when you
launch Messages, searching and composing functions appear on the assistive menu.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Dexterity and interaction → Assistant
menu → Assistant plus, drag the Assistant plus switch to the right, and then select apps.

Editing the assistive menus
You can use this feature to edit menus in the assistive shortcut icon.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Dexterity and interaction → Assistant
menu, drag the Assistant menu switch to the right, and then tap Edit. To add or delete
menus, tap or .

238

Accessibility

Turning on the screen with the air gesture
feature
Use the air gesture feature to turn on the screen by moving your hand above the sensor at
the top of the device. You can turn on the screen without pressing a button. When you use
this feature, place the device on a flat surface or hold the device securely to prevent it from
moving.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Dexterity and interaction → Air wake
up, and then drag the Air wake up switch to the right.

Using the smart scroll feature
Set the device to scroll the screen up or down by tilting your head or the device. You can use
this feature while viewing emails or webpages.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Dexterity and interaction → Smart
scroll, and then drag the Smart scroll switch to the right.
Use the following options:
• 	Tilting head: Set the device to scroll the screen up or down when you tilt your head
upwards or downwards.
• 	Tilting device: Set the device to scroll the screen up or down when you tilt the device
forwards or backwards.
• 	Speed: Adjust the speed for scrolling the screen.
• 	Visual feedback display: Set the device to display a visual feedback icon when the device
recognises your action.

239

Accessibility

Setting tap and hold delay options
Set the recognition time for tapping and holding the screen.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Dexterity and interaction → Tap and
hold delay, and then select an option.

Using interaction control mode
Activate interaction control mode to restrict the device’s reaction to inputs while using apps.
Use this mode when you want to allow others only limited access and control of your media
or data.

1	 On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Dexterity and interaction →
Interaction control.

2	 Drag the Interaction control switch to the right.
3	 Press and hold the Home button and the Volume button down simultaneously while
using an app.

4	 Adjust the size of the frame or draw a line around an area that you want to restrict.
5	 Tap Done.

The device displays the restricted area. If you tap the screen or press buttons, such as the
Home button, they will not work in this area.

To deactivate interaction control mode, press and hold the Home button and the Volume
button down simultaneously.

240

Accessibility

Answering or ending calls
Set the method for answering or ending calls.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Answering and ending calls.
Use the following options:
• 	Pressing the home key: Set the device to answer a call when you press the Home button.
• 	Using voice commands: Set the device to answer a call with voice commands.
• 	Waving hand over device: When a call comes in, move your hand to the left, and then to
the right across the sensor to answer the call.
• 	Pressing the power key: Set the device to end a call when you press the Power button.

Using single tap mode
Set the device to control incoming calls or notifications by tapping the button instead of
dragging it. When an alarm sounds or a call comes in, tap the button to stop the alarm or
answer the call instead of dragging the button.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility, and then tick Single tap mode.

Configuring accessibility settings
Saving accessibility settings in a file
Export the current accessibility settings in a file.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Manage accessibility → Import/
Export, select an export option, and then tap OK. The accessibility settings file is saved to the
selected storage location.

241

Accessibility

Importing an accessibility settings file
Import an accessibility settings file and update the current settings.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Manage accessibility → Import/
Export, and then select an import option. Select a file to import and tap Done → OK. The
accessibility settings will be updated according to the imported file.

Sharing accessibility settings files
Share accessibility settings files with others via email, Wi-Fi Direct, Bluetooth, and more.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility → Manage accessibility → Share via.
Then, select accessibility files and tap Done. Select a sharing method and follow the onscreen instructions to share the files.

Viewing accessibility services
View accessibility services installed on the device.
On the Apps screen, tap Settings → Accessibility, and view the list of accessibility services
available in SERVICES.

242

Accessibility

Using other useful features
• 	Using S Voice: You can use S Voice to perform various functions using voice commands.
Launch S Voice and make calls, send messages, and view tasks. Refer to ‘Adjusting the
sound balance’ for details.
• 	Searching by voice: Use voice commands to search for webpage content. Use this feature
when you are on the move and cannot use your hands to enter text. Refer to ‘Using mono
audio’ for details.
• 	Using notifications panel: Drag the status bar downwards to open the notifications panel.
You can view missed calls, new messages, adjust screen brightness, and more. Refer to
‘Notifications and quick setting panels’ for details.
• 	Switching to easy mode: Easy mode uses a simpler layout and large icons to provide an
easy user experience. You can add frequently-used apps or shortcuts to the Home screen
for easier access. Refer to ‘Switching to easy mode’ for details.
• 	Using control motions: Control the device with palm motions or gestures. Refer to
‘Control motions’ for details.
• 	Using the finger scanner: Register your fingerprints to the device to unlock the screen or
verify the Samsung account password. Refer to ‘Finger Scanner’ for details.
• 	Using car mode: Control the device to perform various functions by voice commands
while driving. You can receive incoming calls, view messages, and listen to music without
touching the device. Refer to ‘Using auto haptic’ for details.
• 	Using shortcuts to contacts: Add shortcuts to contacts on the Home screen to make calls
or send messages more conveniently. Refer to ‘Adding shortcuts for contacts to the Home
screen’ for details.
• 	Using voice recorder: Record or play voice memos. Refer to ‘Voice Recorder’ for details.

243

Troubleshooting
Before contacting a Samsung Service Centre, please attempt the following solutions. Some
situations may not apply to your device.

When you turn on your device or while you are using the device, it
prompts you to enter one of the following codes:
• 	Password: When the device lock feature is enabled, you must enter the password you set
for the device.
• 	PIN: When using the device for the first time or when the PIN requirement is enabled, you
must enter the PIN supplied with the SIM or USIM card. You can disable this feature by
using the Lock SIM card menu.
• 	PUK: Your SIM or USIM card is blocked, usually as a result of entering your PIN incorrectly
several times. You must enter the PUK supplied by your service provider.
• 	PIN2: When you access a menu requiring the PIN2, you must enter the PIN2 supplied with
the SIM or USIM card. For details, contact your service provider.

Your device displays network or service error messages
• 	When you are in areas with weak signals or poor reception, you may lose reception. Move
to another area and try again. While moving, error messages may appear repeatedly.
• 	You cannot access some options without a subscription. Contact your service provider for
more details.

Your device does not turn on
• 	When the battery is completely discharged, your device will not turn on. Charge the
battery completely before turning on the device.
• 	The battery may not be inserted properly. Insert the battery again.
• 	Wipe both gold-coloured contacts and insert the battery again.

244

Troubleshooting

The touch screen responds slowly or improperly
• 	If you attach a protective cover or optional accessories to the touch screen, the touch
screen may not function properly.
• 	If you are wearing gloves, if your hands are not clean while touching the touch screen,
or if you tap the screen with sharp objects or your fingertips, the touch screen may
malfunction.
• 	The touch screen may malfunction in humid conditions or when exposed to water.
• 	Restart your device to clear any temporary software bugs.
• 	Ensure that your device software is upgraded to the latest version.
• 	If the touch screen is scratched or damaged, visit a Samsung Service Centre.

Your device freezes or has fatal errors
If your device freezes or hangs, you may need to close apps or reinsert the battery and turn
on the device to regain functionality. If your device is frozen and unresponsive, press and hold
the Power button and the Volume button down simultaneously for more than 7 seconds to
restart it.
If this does not solve the problem, perform a factory data reset. On the Apps screen, tap
Settings → Backup and reset → Factory data reset → Reset device → Erase everything.
Before performing the factory data reset, remember to make backup copies of all important
data stored on the device.
If the problem is still not resolved, contact a Samsung Service Centre.

Calls are not connected
• 	Ensure that you have accessed the right cellular network.
• 	Ensure that you have not set call barring for the phone number you are dialling.
• 	Ensure that you have not set call barring for the incoming phone number.

Others cannot hear you speaking on a call
• 	Ensure that you are not covering the built-in microphone.
• 	Ensure that the microphone is close to your mouth.
• 	If using a headset, ensure that it is properly connected.

245

Troubleshooting

Sound echoes during a call
Adjust the volume by pressing the Volume button or move to another area.

A cellular network or the Internet is often disconnected or audio
quality is poor
• 	Ensure that you are not blocking the device’s internal antenna.
• 	When you are in areas with weak signals or poor reception, you may lose reception. You
may have connectivity problems due to issues with the service provider’s base station.
Move to another area and try again.
• 	When using the device while moving, wireless network services may be disabled due to
issues with the service provider’s network.

The battery icon is empty
Your battery is low. Recharge or replace the battery.

The battery does not charge properly (For Samsung-approved
chargers)
• 	Ensure that the charger is connected properly.
• 	If the battery terminals are dirty, the battery may not charge properly or the device may
turn off. Wipe both gold-coloured contacts and try charging the battery again.
• 	The batteries in some devices are not user-replaceable. To have the battery replaced, visit
a Samsung Service Centre.

The battery depletes faster than when first purchased
• 	When you expose the battery to very cold or very hot temperatures, the useful charge
may be reduced.
• 	Battery consumption increases when you use messaging features or some apps, such as
games or the Internet.
• 	The battery is consumable and the useful charge will get shorter over time.

246

Troubleshooting

Your device is hot to the touch
When you use apps that require more power or use apps on your device for an extended
period of time, your device may feel hot to the touch. This is normal and should not affect
your device’s lifespan or performance.

Error messages appear when launching the camera
Your device must have sufficient available memory and battery power to operate the camera
app. If you receive error messages when launching the camera, try the following:
• 	Charge the battery or replace it with a battery that is fully charged.
• 	Free some memory by transferring files to a computer or deleting files from your device.
• 	Restart the device. If you are still having trouble with the camera app after trying these
tips, contact a Samsung Service Centre.

Photo quality is poorer than the preview
• 	The quality of your photos may vary, depending on the surroundings and the
photography techniques you use.
• 	If you take photos in dark areas, at night, or indoors, image noise may occur or images
may be out of focus.

Error messages appear when opening multimedia files
If you receive error messages or files do not play, when opening multimedia files on your
device, try the following:
• 	Free some memory by transferring files to a computer or deleting files from your device.
• 	Ensure that the music file is not Digital Rights Management (DRM)-protected. If the file is
DRM-protected, ensure that you have the appropriate licence or key to play the file.
• 	Ensure that the file formats are supported by the device. If a file format is not supported,
such as DivX or AC3, install an application that supports it.

247

Troubleshooting
• 	Your device supports photos and videos captured with the device. Photos and videos
captured by other devices may not work properly.
• 	Your device supports multimedia files that are authorised by your network service
provider or providers of additional services. Some content circulated on the Internet,
such as ringtones, videos, or wallpapers, may not work properly.

Another Bluetooth device is not located
• 	Ensure that the Bluetooth wireless feature is activated on your device.
• 	Ensure that the Bluetooth wireless feature is activated on the device you wish to connect
to.
• 	Ensure that your device and the other Bluetooth device are within the maximum
Bluetooth range (10 m).
If the tips above do not solve the problem, contact a Samsung Service Centre.

A connection is not established when you connect the device to a
computer
• 	Ensure that the USB cable you are using is compatible with your device.
• 	Ensure that you have the proper driver installed and updated on your computer.
• 	If you are a Windows XP user, ensure that you have Windows XP Service Pack 3 or higher
installed on your computer.
• 	Ensure that you have Samsung Kies or Windows Media Player 10 or higher installed on
your computer.

Your device cannot find your current location
GPS signals may be obstructed in some locations, such as indoors. Set the device to use Wi-Fi
or a mobile network to find your current location in these situations.

248

Troubleshooting

Data stored on the device has been lost
Always make backup copies of all important data stored on the device. Otherwise, you
cannot restore data if it is corrupted or lost. Samsung is not responsible for the loss of data
stored on the device.

A small gap appears around the outside of the device case
• 	This gap is a necessary manufacturing feature and some minor rocking or vibration of
parts may occur.
• 	Over time, friction between parts may cause this gap to expand slightly.

Copyright
Copyright © 2014 Samsung Electronics
This guide is protected under international copyright laws.
No part of this guide may be reproduced, distributed, translated, or transmitted in any form or
by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or storing in any
information storage and retrieval system, without the prior written permission of Samsung
Electronics.

Trademarks
• 	SAMSUNG and the SAMSUNG logo are registered trademarks of Samsung Electronics.
• 	Bluetooth® is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG, Inc. worldwide.

• 	Wi-Fi®, Wi-Fi Protected Setup™, Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Passpoint™, Wi-Fi Direct™, Wi-Fi
CERTIFIED™, and the Wi-Fi logo are registered trademarks of the Wi-Fi Alliance.

• 	All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners.

249