OWNER’S MANUAL

Magic Remote

Please read this manual carefully before using your remote and retain it for future
reference.
AN-MR650A

www.lg.com

ACCESSORIES
The remote control image shown may differ from the actual product.
(Depending upon country)

Magic Remote and Alkaline Batteries (AA)

Owner’s manual

ꔈꔈContents in this manual may be changed without prior notice due to upgrade of product functions.

BATTERY
1. Installing Batteries
ꔈꔈPlease read this manual carefully.
ꔈꔈPress the top of the battery cover, slide it back, and lift the cover as
shown below.
ꔈꔈTo replace batteries, open the battery cover, replace alkaline
batteries (1.5 V, AA) matching and ends to the label inside
the compartment, and close the battery cover. Be sure to point the
remote control at the remote control sensor on the TV.
ꔈꔈTo remove the batteries, perform the installation actions in reverse.
Don’t mix old or used batteries with new ones. Close the cover
securely.
ꔈꔈOpen the battery cover to find the label.

2. Precautions
ꔈꔈAfter replacement of the batteries, pair the remote control and use it in accordance with user manual.
ꔈꔈIf the unit does not operate after replacement of batteries, reattempt pairing in accordance with the user manual.
ꔈꔈIf the remote controller is not being used for prolonged period of time, remove the batteries from the unit.
ꔈꔈDo not dismantle or expose the batteries to heat.
ꔈꔈDo not drop or exert extreme impact on the batteries. This may cause the case to be damaged.
ꔈꔈDo not immerse the batteries in water.
ꔈꔈThere is danger of explosion if batteries are inserted incorrectly.
ꔈꔈProperly dispose of used batteries.

2

REMOTE DESCRIPTION
ꔈꔈThe remote control image shown may differ from the actual product.
ꔈꔈThe order of description may differ from the actual product.
ꔈꔈSome buttons and services may not be provided depending on models or regions.

(POWER)
Turns the TV on or off.
You can turn your set-top box on or off by adding the set-top box to the
universal remote control for your TV.

Number buttons
Enters numbers.

Alphabet buttons
Enters letters.

(Space)
Opens an empty space on the screen keyboard.

(DASH)
Inserts a

(DASH) between numbers such as 2-1 and 2-2.

Accesses the saved channels or programmes list.

*
Press this button to bring up BML data broadcasting.
You can access apps or Live TV using the number buttons corresponding to the
features.

(Screen remote)
Displays the Screen Remote.
-- Accesses the Universal Control Menu in some regions.

Video/audio descriptions function will be enabled.
-- SAP (Secondary Audio Program) feature can also be enabled by pressing the
button. (Applicable to North America)

Adjusts the volume level.

(MUTE)
Mutes all sounds.
Scrolls through the saved channels or programmes.

3

(Voice recognition)
Network connection is required to use the voice recognition function.
1.	 Press the voice recognition button.
2.	 Speak when the voice display window appears on the TV screen.

(SEARCH)*
Search for content such as TV programmes, movies and other videos, or
perform a web search by entering text in the search bar.

(HOME)
Accesses the Home menu.
Shows the previous history.

Displays the set-top box Home menu. (When you are not watching via a settop box: the display changes to the set-top box screen.)

Wheel (OK)
Press the center of the Wheel (OK) button to select a menu.
You can change channels or programmes by using the Wheel (OK) button.

(up/down/left/right)
Press the up, down, left, or right button to scroll the menu.
If you press
buttons while the pointer is in use, the pointer will
disappear from the screen and the Magic Remote will operate like a general
remote control.
To display the pointer on the screen again, shake the Magic Remote to the left
and right.
Returns to the previous screen.

Clears on-screen displays and returns to last input viewing.

4

Shows channels or programmes guide.
Activates or deactivates the subtitles.

(INPUT)
Changes the input source.
-- Pressing and holding the
inputs.

(INPUT) button displays all the lists of external

Streaming Service buttons
Connects to the Video Streaming Service.

(Q. Settings)
Accesses the Quick Settings.
-- Pressing and holding the
menu.

(Q. Settings) button displays the All Settings

Coloured buttons
These access special functions in some menus.

Control buttons (

)

Controls media contents.

(TELETEXT buttons)
These buttons are used for teletext.

Provides content related to the programme you are currently watching.

By zooming in on the selected area, you can view it in full screen.

You can zoom in on the area where the remote control is pointed.

* To use the button, press and hold for more than 3 seconds.

5

USING
1. How to register (pair) or deregister (unpair)

How to register (pair) the Magic Remote
To use the Magic Remote, first pair it with your TV.
1.	 Put batteries into the Magic Remote and turn the TV on.
2.	 Point the Magic Remote at your TV and press the Wheel
(OK) on the remote control.
-- If the TV fails to register the Magic Remote, try again after
turning the TV off and back on.

How to deregister (unpair) the Magic Remote
Press and hold the
(HOME) and
buttons at the
same time for five seconds, to unpair the Magic Remote with
your TV.
ꔈꔈPressing and holding the
button will let you
cancel and re-register Magic Remote at once. (In some TV
models, use
button.)

6

2. How to use

ꔈꔈShake the Magic Remote slightly to the right and left or
press
(HOME),
(INPUT), or
(Q. Settings) buttons
to make the pointer appear on the screen.
(In some TV models, the pointer will appear when you turn
the Wheel (OK) button.)
ꔈꔈIf the pointer has not been used for a certain period of time
or Magic Remote is placed on a flat surface, then the pointer
will disappear.
ꔈꔈIf the pointer is not responding smoothly, you can reset the
pointer by moving it to the edge of the screen.
ꔈꔈThe Magic Remote depletes batteries faster than a normal
remote due to the additional features.

PRECAUTIONS TO TAKE
ꔈꔈUse the remote control within the specified range (within 10 m).
You may experience communication failures when using the device outside the coverage area or if there are
obstacles within the coverage area.
ꔈꔈYou may experience communication failures depending on the accessories.
Devices such as a microwave oven and wireless LAN operate in the same frequency band (2.4 GHz) as the
Magic Remote. This may cause communication failures.
ꔈꔈThe Magic Remote may not work properly if a wireless router (AP) is within 1 m of the TV. Your wireless
router should be more than 1 m away from the TV.
ꔈꔈDo not disassemble or heat the batteries.
ꔈꔈDo not drop the battery. Avoid extreme shocks to the battery.
ꔈꔈInserting a battery in the wrong way may result in explosion.

7

SPECIFICATIONS
CATEGORIES

DETAILS

Model No.

AN-MR650A

Range of frequency

2.400 GHz to 2.4835 GHz

Output Power (Max.)

4 dBm

Channel

40 channels

Reception sensitivity

-94.5 dBm

Dimensions (mm)

Width 48.3 x Length 183.5 x Thickness 33.7
(tolerance of ± 1 mm)

Weight

101.7 g ± 8 g
(excluding batteries)

Power source

AA 1.5 V,
2 alkaline batteries are used

Power consumption

300 mW

Operational temperature
range

0 °C to 60 °C

8