FRIDGE-FREEZER
Please read this guide thoroughly before operating
and keep it handy for reference at all times.

P/NO.:MFL67225614

www.lg.com

Table of Contents
Introduction

Installation

Operation
Suggestion on
food storage

Care and
maintenance

Trouble shooting

To Reverse the
Doors

3

Important safety Instruction

4

Disposal of the old appliance &
packing of new appliance

6

Identification of Parts

7

Location

8

Electrical Connection

9

Starting

9

Storing food

10

Making Ice

10

Defrosting

11

Cleaning

12

General Information

13

Tips for saving Energy

14

Trouble shooting

15

How to Reverse the Door

16

Door handle

18

Introduction
The appliance is suitable for storing the frozen goods.
It is restricted for household use. If it is used for industrial or
commercial purpose, observe the related regulations firmly. If
using other purpose or misuse, the manufacturer is not
responsible for the damages of occasion.
Ignoring the recommendations for environmental use will
make your appliance consume higher energy.

Important Safety Instruction
This fridge-freezer must be properly installed and
located in accordance with the Installation
Instruction before it is used.

Precaution

Never unplug your fridge-freezer by pulling on the
power cord. Always grip plug firmly and pull straight
out from the outlet.
When moving your appliance away from the wall,
be careful not to roll over or damage the power
cord.
After your fridge-freezer is in operation, do not
touch the cold surfaces in the freezer compartment,
particularly when hands are damp or wet. Skin may
adhere to these extremely cold surfaces.
Pull out the power plug prior to cleaning the fridgefreezer.
Never damage, severely bend, pull out, or twist the
power cord because power cord damage may cause a
fire or electronic shock. Never place glass products in the
freezer because they may be broken when their inner
contents are frozen.
If possible, connect the fridge-freezer to its own
individual electrical outlet to prevent it and other
appliances or household lights from causing an overload.

Don't use an
extension cord

4

Introduction

Do not store explosive substances such as aerosol cans
with a flammable propellant in this appliance.

This appliance is not intended for use by persons (including
children) with reduced physical, sensory or mental capabilities,
or lack of experience and knowledge, unless they have been
given supervision or instruction concerning use of the
appliance by a person responsible for their safety.
Children should be supervised to ensure that they do not
play with the appliance.
5

Introduction

Disposal of the old appliance &
packing of new appliance
Disposal of the old
appliance

The old appliance whose life has expired should be
destroyed in order to make it safe prior to disposal. Take
out power plugs, separate connection wires and remove
or destroy all springs, latches or bolting, to prevent
children from being trapped during play.
For environmental protection, old refrigerators should be
disposed off by a professional disposition agency. If you
have any question, please consult with the local sale
agency or local authority.

Disposal of
packing of new
appliance

All packing materials used for this appliance are
environment-friendly.
Matters concerning material are as follows:
PE : Polyethylene – Foil or pocket for packing
PS : Formed objects made of foamed
CFC-FREE polystyrene
PP : Strapping tape made of polypropylene

Take back offer

This appliance contains fluid (refrigerant, lubricant) and is
made of parts and materials which are reusable and/or
recyclable.
All the important materials should be sent to the
collection center of waste material and can be reused
after rework (recycling). For take back, please contact
with the local agency.

6

Identification of Parts

NOTE

This is a basic model. The shape of refrigerator is
subject to change.

7

Installation

Location
This appliance is suitable for using at ambient
temperature between +16°C and +38°C. If the ambient
temperature drops below +16°C, it is possible that the
freezing foods in the freezer compartment are thawed
because the temperature of the freezer gets warm.
We recommend that the refrigerator be installed at a dry
and well ventilated place. Make sure that the appliance is
not exposed to direct sunlight or placed in vicinity of a
heat source such as stove, heaters, radiator.
To ensure proper air circulation around the fridge -freezer,
please maintain sufficient space on both the sides as well
as top and maintain at least 2 inches (5 cm) from the rear
wall.
This appliance is intended to be used in household and
similar applications such as staff kitchen areas in shops,
offices and other working environments; farm houses
and by clients in hotels, motels and other residential type
environments; bed and breakfast type environments;
catering and similar non-retail applications.

NOTE

Place on a flat and firm flooring. If the floor is not
even, adjust the feet by using the leveling screw
at the front edge of the cabinet.
If the front is slightly higher than the rear, the door
can close more easily.

8

Installation

Electrical connection
This appliance should be connected to the mains AC
220~240V , 50 Hz. You must connect this appliance only
to the power socket with grounding complying with the
related regulations and only an approved expert should
install this appliance.

Operation

Starting
Before switching it on, leave the appliance standing for
at least 2 hours, so that the circulation of the refrigerant
stabilizes and no operating problems occur.

°C

h

When the appliance powers on, the initial state displayed
on LED is "-18°C".
Button K1 (Defrost):
Press button K1 for three seconds the first time, indicator "-",
"°C", "h" shut off, compressor stop running and the value
displayed onLED is"OF". Press button K1 for three seconds the
second time ,indicator "-", "°C", "h" display normally,
compressor runningnormally and LED displays the initial state.
Button K2 (Quick freezing):
Press butoon K2 for the first time, indicator "-", "°C"shut off,
indicator "h" light on and initial freezing time displayed is"3h".
Press button K2 for the second time the freezing time displayed
is "2h". Press button K2 for the third time the freezing time
displayed is "1h". The compressor will ren from 1hour to
3 hours according to the freezing time displayed on LED.
Press button K2 for the fourth time, the indicators will recover
the state before quick freeze.
Button K3 (Temperature regulation):
Press button K3 continuously, the provided temperature
displayed will be from -14°C to -24°C circularly.

9

Suggestion on food storage

Storing food
Opening the door often or keeping the door opened a
long time, increases the inside temperature. This causes
the storage life and flavor of the foods to reduce, and
increases the energy consumption.
Do not touch deep-frozen foods with wet hands.
You could get chilblains on your hands.

NOTE

Make sure foods that are not frozen do not touch the
frozen foods. The frozen foods may melt.
The packing materials suitable for refrigerating the foods are
- Polyethylene bags, Plastic foil, freezing containers.
The suitable wrapping materials are
- Rubber band, Plastic clips, attaching tape, string.
Before sealing, get rid of air from packing bags and foil.
The remained air makes the storing foods dry.
You can freeze foods quickly when packing is level. Do
not store bottles in freezer compartment. They may
break when frozen.

Making Ice
To make ice cubes, fill ice
tray 3/4 full with water and
place it on the bottom of the
freezer compartment.
To remove ice cubes, hold the ice tray at its ends and
twist gently.
To remove ice cubes easily, run water on the tray
before twisting.

s

Tip

10

Care and Maintenance

Defrosting
Defrosting the fridge compartment
When the freezer is working, frost is formed at the
rear wall of the fridge compartment and melts
automatically when the compressor stops.

Defrosting the freezer compartment
Humidity forms frost or ice in the freezer compartment
while the appliance is working or when the freezer door
is opened. The thick ice and frost decrease cool air and
increase the energy consumption.
Defrost Ice Layer
If the freezer compartment is heavily iced, defrost as
follows.
- Remove the frozen food, wrap in newspaper and store
in a cool place.
- Leave the door open, and wipe out water with a
sponge.
- Dry the freezer compartment thoroughly, turn on the
appliance, and replace frozen foods.

It is helpful to place a saucepan with hot water inside
of the freezing room in order to assist defrost.

s

Tip

NOTE

Never place electrical devices in the refrigerator
for defrost. Take care when using defrosting sprays
for assisting defrosting. These sprays include
substances containing explosive gas, or harmful for
synthesis or human health.

11

Care and Maintenance

Cleaning
Always remove plugs or Switch off supply before
cleaning.
Do not use sharp objects (such as knife, screwdriver)
which could break refrigerant circuit resulting in
environmental and health risks.
Never use steam cleaner or steam pressure cleaner since
hot steam may damage refrigerator surface and electrical
devices. Never use sand, abrasive detergent, acid or
chemical solvent.
• The freezer compartment should be cleaned at least
once a month.
• The most appropriate time for cleaning of the freezer
compartment is a time after defrosting.

Warning

• Clean refrigerator including inside devices with clothes
or lukewarm water. You may use commercial
detergent for tableware.
• Frequently clean the water drain inlet on the inside rear
side of refrigerator. Clean the drain inlet using objects
like a toothpick so that the drain inlet is not clogged.
Care should be taken so that cleaning water does not
overflows in the drain tub.
For products with a stainless steel exterior, use a clean
sponge or soft cloth and a mildDetergent in warm water.
Do not use abrasive or harsh cleaners.
Dry thoroughly with a Soft cloth.
Do not use appliance wax, bleach, or other products
containing chlorine on stainless steel.
Regularly clean the heat exchanger on the rear side of
refrigerator using a smooth brush so that accumulations
of dusts and residues. Do not disrupt expansion from the
inside and cause increased energy consumption.
Any damage to the heat exchanger or other events
leading to the exposure of the refrigerant to the
environment, should be avoided because of
potential environment and health risks.

12

Care and Maintenance

General information
When you plan to be away for an extended period,
remove all food, disconnect the power cord, clean the
interior thoroughly, and leave the door OPEN to prevent
odor formation.

Going away

Power failure

Most power failures are corrected in an hour or two and
will not affect your refrigerator temperatures. However,
you should minimize the number of door openings while
the power is OFF. During power failures of longer
duration, place a block of dry ice on top of your frozen
packages.

If you move

Remove all items inside the refrigerator or securely fasten
all loose items. To avoid damaging the leveling screw,
turn them all the way into the base.
• The Anti-condensation pipe is
installed around the front side
of fridge-freezer to prevent
dewing.

Anti-condensation
pipe

• Especially after installation or
when ambient temperature is
high, the fridge-freezer may
feel hot, which is quite normal.

13

Anti-Condensation
Pipe

Care and Maintenance

Tips for saving Energy
- After moving the appliance, allow 2 hours to turn
on again.
- Do not place the appliance near radiator, stove,
and heat sources. If ambient temperature is high,
the compressor will run longer.
- Place the appliance on a cool and well ventilated
room. Do not expose to direct sunlight.
- Do not keep the door opened too long.
- Do not place warm food and beverages in
appliance. Please cool down first otherwise
the steam from hot foodstuffs would contribute
to the icing up of the evaporator unit; and the
cooling period should be as short as possible, for
health and hygiene reasons.
- Do not set the temperature of appliance lower than
needed.
- Place the deep-frozen foods for thawing into the
fridge.
They can be used for cooling the fridge.
- Replace magnetic door gasket of the door if it is
not properly functioning.

14

Trouble Shooting
Before calling for service, check this list.
It may save you both time and expense.
This list includes common occurrences that are not
the result of defective workmanship or materials in
this appliance.

Problem

Possible Causes
• Power plug may be unplugged from the electric
outlet.
Plug it in securely.

Fridge-Freezer
does not operate

• House fuse has blown or circuit breaker has
tripped.
Check and/or replace fuse and reset circuit breaker.
• Power cut.
Check house lights.
• The floor on which the fridge-freezer is installed
may be uneven or the fridge-freezer may be
unstable.
Make it even by rotating the leveling screw.

Vibration or
Rattling or
Abnormal Noise

• Unnecessary objects placed in the back side of the
fridge-freezer.

Temperature of foods
inside refrigerator is
not cold enough

• Too frequent or too long door openings.
There is a heat source near Fridge-Freezer.
A large quantity of food was placed inside the
fridge compartment.

The temperature
inside the refrigerator
is too cold

• The electronic controller is setting to extremely
low figure.

15

Trouble Shooting

Problem

Possible Causes
• Foods with strong odors should be tightly
covered or wrapped
• Check for spoiled food
• Interior needs cleaning
• Refer to "Cleaning Section"

Fridge has odor

• This phenomenon is likely to occur in a wet space.
Wipe it with a dry towel

Moisture forms on
cabinet surface

16

To Reverse the Doors

How to Reverse the Door
Your refrigerator is designed with a reversible door, so
you may open from either left or right. It is best to
reposition the door hinge as necessary at the outset since
it is inconvenient to do so later.
To change the door hinge please refer to the diagram
below and proceed as follows.

Precaution

1. First unplug the appliance.
2. Remove foods and accessories like shelves or trays
which are not fixed in the refrigerator.
3. Carefully lay the appliance on a cushion like packing
material to avoid the damage of refrigeration circuit.
4. Use ‘+’ driver or spanner to fix or remove the bolts.
1. Unscrew the 2xBOLTS , then remove the hinge (L) .
2. Remove the LEG .
3. Gently pull the door downwards to remove it.
4. Before refitting the door, swap the Hinge Cap  by pulling
it out from its current location and repositioning it on the
other side of the door. Care should be taken not to damage
the adjacent surfaces when removing the Hinge Cap.
5. Unscrew the Upper Hinge pin (U)  and screw it into the
opposite side hole.

4

17

4

To Reverse the Doors

How to Reverse the Door
6. After refitting the door, fix the Lower Hinge(L) in the
opposite side by using 2xBOLTS.
7. Fix the Leg.
8. Carefully place the appliance in an upright position.
Adjust the Leveling screw to make sure the appliance
is steady and check that the door opens and closes
properly.
NOTE

In case of applying Reversible door, when you close
the door with excessive force, there could be the case
that the door doesn’t close because of Reaction
force. Please ascertain if the door closes properly.

Door handle (Option)

Note

Reversing the doors is not covered by the warranty.

18